The risk on trade has been very strong,
very long. Positioning is very crowded
and people have already priced [music]
in most of the good news.
>> I don't think the bull market's over.
>> Mornings have been rock solid. At the
end of the day, it's going to be the
earners that is going to drive this
market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from [music] New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, following a weekend [music]
of travel chaos, putting the Senate on
course to help end the gridlock in
Washington. As the White House says we
could be risking negative [music] growth
this quarter, President Donald Trump is
planning his next move, proposing a
$2,000 tariff dividend for American
consumers.
>> Look, this goes to the heart of the
moment. People are very worried [music]
about cost of living. You saw that in
the latest elections. You've seen this
with respect to a lot of different
sentiment polls and President Trump is
trying to convince them that things will
get better and that any kind of [music]
deterioration in their cost of living
does not come from terrorists but comes
from Biden policies uh of the former
regime. What these debates what these
rebates are is really up for debate.
Whether this is just sort of renaming
some of the tax [music] credits that
already have been passed or whether this
actually is a rebate and if it is it
raises questions about the national
deficit. The Treasury Secretary [music]
Scott Besson doing a very good job of
dancing around this issue over the
weekend after not talking to the
president directly about it, but
offering some solutions to [music] that
$2,000 giveaway. It's not just that,
though. There's a populist twist over
the weekend coming from the White House.
Is the $2,000 checks, [music] plus
50-year mortgages in the mix as well,
looking to address the issues that
everyday Americans have.
>> Bill Py is making the FHFA great again
and making it relevant. Look, there are
a lot of questions and obstacles for a
50-year mortgage to get off the ground.
Nonetheless, you'd have to [music] have
some sort of 50-year Treasury probably.
Also, how would the uh Federal Reserve
manage with this? There is a focus
though on cost of living, and you have
to really think about how this was the
referendum on cost of living in the
latest election. President Trump [music]
trying to pull out all the stops to say
things really aren't as bad as you think
they are, and prices are actually coming
down. What you are seeing from the
sentiment surveys, a huge push back from
that. And this is really uh speaking to
a lot of these proposals.
>> Apart from one group, I went through you
Mitch so [music] you don't have to. The
one group that feels okay right now are
the people who hold the most stocks.
Equities close to all-time highs. Equity
futures again up 1% [music] this
morning.
>> Yeah, this speaks to the idea of how
much can the Fed really do if it
continues to prop [music] stock markets
and fuel some of the gains that we're
seeing in sentiment and spending power
at the upper echelons of Americans.
You're seeing this [music] across the
board. You're seeing this across
earnings. I think that the question
really comes down to, and I know that
John Williams of the New York Fed
addressed this. [music] There is an
ultimate question of how much is that uh
concern about cost of living an endemic
problem with something that's a
softening in the economy [music]
versus a separate subset that doesn't
necessarily offset the incredible
optimism you're [music] seeing in the
wealthiest.
>> The San Francisco Fed President Mary
Dailyy joining us a little bit later
this morning, joining us at 8:30 Eastern
time. [music] So look out for that.
Assuming this government shutdown ends,
got to make some assumptions here. Let's
just assume for now, play along this
[music] thing ends. How quickly do we
get the jobs report and how long do we
have to wait for all the other data
points we still haven't collected the
data for? [music]
>> So my questions this morning, how
quickly do we get all the data releases?
How much could these releases buffet
markets? How much do people care given
the fact that they are delayed and
populate [music] coming out? Uh how
quickly does air travel get back to
normal? How many how much will any
delayed holiday [music] spending get
back? Right? There's so many questions
that people have been swirling around
with. Respect [music] for the data. How
much do people actually think it's
credible given the fact that people are
going back and saying, "How did you feel
3 weeks ago? I don't know how I felt
yesterday."
>> How many times has Amarie said, "One
weekend of travel chaos and this thing's
over." One weekend of major travel chaos
and [music] it looks like this thing
might be over.
>> Well, and a transportation secretary is
saying that on Thanksgiving, [music]
transportation would move to a crawl
that you wouldn't have anyone showing up
because why should they? Because they're
being paid $100,000. They're not even
getting paid. They have to work other
jobs. You start to wonder if these are
such crucial members of our society, why
don't we pay some of these agents a
little bit more and maybe have a
different mechanism that doesn't get
shut down every other year.
>> That's what I'd be saying in my year end
def
>> 100%
>> if I was them. Stocks are up this
morning. Bonds are down, yields are
higher across the curve Tuesday out to
30s, 10s [music] this morning, up three
basis points, your yield on a 10-year
maturity 413. [music] Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Lori Calvacina
of RBC as stocks look to kick off the
week on a firmer footing. We'll speak to
the former Congressman Patrick Mckenry
as Democrats reach across the aisle and
Dana Peterson of the Conference Board
with consumer sentiment falling to a
three-year low. We begin this hour with
stocks rising as lawmakers take a major
step towards ending the government
shutdown. Lori Cavscina of RBC writing,
"We continue to think earnings are
providing a solid foundation for the
equity market, but the best part of the
earnings story may be behind us." Lori
joins us now for more. Lori, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What's in front of us? it. What's in
front of us is we've got to still
contend with peak valuations. We've got
earnings sentiment that's pretty good,
but not nearly back to where it was in
August when we were, you know, baking in
this much much better than expected
tariff environment. Um, and I do think
as as Lisa mentioned, you know, we do
still have some uncertainty on the data.
I know that the data release I'm waiting
for is not NFP, it's not CPI. I want the
CFTC data on US equity futures
positioning. So CFTC, if you're
listening, please get that to me very
quickly because we've, you know, had
this march up to new highs. There's a
lot of thunder kind of rumbling in the
distance as we put it in the weekly
today. Um, you know, I know you're going
to have Dana on later, but the
conference board data, they had an
interesting uh uh question as well on
stock market optimism, which was not
back up to the tiptop highs, but was
basically back up to levels that often
mark the peak. So, I think we do have
to, you know, sort of see, do we have
sort of peak optimism around stocks
right now in consumers? The CFTC data
won't speak to the consumer side, but
it'll give you a lens in terms of how
the institutional investor community.
You've cautioned this for a while, Lori.
This is not a one-way ticket to a
year-end meltdown.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that falling on deaf ears?
>> You know, it's it's interesting because
if you look at a lot of these stocks
that have reported, we're having these
big gaps down. So, it feels like we're
getting that garden variety pullback in
individual names. It hasn't manifest at
the surface yet. I think the worst, you
know, kind of day on the draw down, it's
been down a little more than 3%. We
think that should be at least like five,
probably no worse than 10. Frankly,
maybe closer to five than 10. But I'll
tell you, John, we watch the valuation
levels. And if we look at the S&P 500,
um just that top 10 market cap cohort.
We had gotten up to 30 at one point,
that's basically been the ceiling of the
last 10 years that we just can't break
through. And we've fallen back down to
about 28 in our latest update. Um but
it's still just not giving you a whole
lot of room.
>> Is this the problem of the mag seven of
the tech names or is this a problem more
broadly of the index?
>> It's a problem broadly. I do think the
mag seven, you know, these kind of
rumblings have happened as jitters over
AI of manifest. That seems to be the
only thing to really generate our bad
down days. But if you look at S&P 500 X,
the top 10 names, I think that PE is
trading at around 17.8 right now. It got
up a little bit over 18. And 18 has
basically been its ceiling over time. So
whether you're looking at top 10 market
cap names, a good proxy for the MAG7, or
even just the rest of the market, it
looks like we've got a problem with
hitting valuation ceilings everywhere we
look. So this raises a question of how
much we could actually talk about the
market in aggregate versus according to
sectors given that it's a K-shaped
market. I mean it's a cliche at this
point and everyone kind of rolls their
eyes but there's a question here of if
you get MAG 7 or the tech stocks maybe
plateauing here you could get an index
level that doesn't advance much but
actually looks healthier with that kind
of broadening out and some of the other
names really seeing a boost from say Fed
rate cuts from say more stability. How
much do you see that as a realistic
proposition?
>> So, look, I think the MAG7, you know,
they just have to sort of behave, right,
in order for the market not to have, you
know, kind of one of these major scares.
The rest of the market, though, you
know, it's interesting. You've got
slightly better valuations in terms of
the headline level. Again, the trend
versus history is not fantastic. They're
more at the epicenter of the tariff
issue right now. Um, and if you look,
say, at the industrial sector, we've
seen margin expectations come down again
in this reporting season. And that's
actually along with a few other sectors
dragging down the aggregate S&P numbers.
You know, I think that with rate cuts,
one of the things our economist talks
about is maybe the economy is not quite
as rate sensitive as it used to be. Now,
that speaks to kind of higher income
consumers, right, who are doing more of
the heavy lifting on spending, having
cleaned up their own balance sheets, but
we also know corporates have cleaned up
their balance sheets as well. Um, I know
one thing we heard at our industrial
conference a few months ago was one rate
cut was not going to be enough. Um, they
didn't sort of weigh in on like what
exactly two gets you. Um, but the idea
that, you know, just doing a little bit
of relief on the rate side is going to
like get you off to the races. We've
seen that kind of poo pooed in both
corporate earnings calls and, you know,
public events by companies.
>> I want to build on the Lori Cavscina
push back. The other push back we've had
from you over the last several months
has been on small caps. And that's the
first back-to-back weekly loss we've had
for the Russell going back to April,
believe it or not, down by 2% on the
Russell just last week. Is there more
pain to come, do you think, for the
small caps, even if we get additional
rate cuts? So look, I will say small
caps do have some room on valuation.
It's maybe the one corner of the market.
It's about 16 and a half times 17 18
tends to be your peak. So there's not a
ton of room. This is also why I want to
see the CFTC data because they were so
out of favor on that data set. That was
the best thing around the Jackson Hole
time frame to tell you to look for a
trade along with this idea of rate cuts.
But I'll tell you, John, even small caps
have cleaned up their balance sheets
relative to history. Um, a lot of people
don't believe that, but if you go back
to the period when the Fed was hiking
rates, a lot of small cap PMs were
telling me that on their earnings calls
with their companies, uh, the companies
were making the case that their balance
sheets weren't as bad as they'd been in
the past. So, like, what kind of pop are
you going to get? I think at the end of
the day, you still need the hot economy,
and we'll see what the data shows when
we start to get it again, but all this
alternative data we're getting doesn't
tell me that we're in that hot economy
period. And I'll give you one last
little tidbit. We did some work. We were
talking through this issue with clients
over the last few weeks. And if you look
at some of the quantum stocks that are
big weights in the Russell 2000 when
they were surging in October, that is
what took the Russell 2000 up to its
peak relative to the S&P 500. And since
those quantum names have faded, you've
seen the Russell give back a lot of that
outperformance versus S&P. So, we said
in the weekly this morning, how much of
this was rates and how much of was it
just these quantum names juicing things?
>> Are you suggesting it's all just the one
trade, the same trade? I I think I think
to some extent I think to some extent it
is. I mean I think you were even getting
that kind of tech froth optimism seeping
into small cap and everyone thought it
was rate cuts.
>> Out of all the issues right now, Stuart
Kaiser City lists them. Consumer
earnings, AI sentiment, Fed policy,
limited macro data. What's the one
that's flashing red for you? What's most
problematic out of that list of four?
>> I mean, I think the one that's probably
most important is the AI sentiment. I
don't know that that's flashing the
reddest like maybe it's a little bit
yellow right now. And we've just heard
consistently people who have been
bullish on that theme are starting to
get some sticker shock. So it's not that
people are fighting the trade, it's
people who have been there that are
starting to get worried.
>> Lori Cavscina of RBC. Lori, always good
to see you pushing back against that
one-way ticket to a year-end mount plus
I think a lot of cold water over the
small cap trade over the last several
months from Lori and the team over at
RBC. the idea that there's such great
valuations, maybe a little bit of push
back there and then a question uh just
of what can propel it given the fact
that you have seen some margin
compression and we've heard that from a
number of them.
>> Things are doing better this morning.
Equity futures up big time, higher by
0.9% on the S&P 500. Just off session
highs with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here with us now,
Yahara Arnard. Hey, Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. [music] Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant says President
Trump's suggestion of a tariff dividend
could have come via the tax cuts in his
signature economic policy bill. [music]
Bessant making the statement when asked
about Trump's social media post where
the president said each American would
receive a dividend of at least $2,000
from that [music] tariff revenue.
Meanwhile, tensions between the US and
China are continuing to show signs of
easing with China adding more than a
dozen fentinel precursors to a list of
controlled exports to the US, Mexico,
[music] and Canada. The move represents
a step in fulfilling China's pledge to
combat the flow of synthetic opioid
ingredients to the [music] US. And
Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong says he's asked
TSMC for more [music] chip supplies to
keep up with booming AI demand. Speaking
at a TSMC event in Taiwan, [music] Wong
says Nvidia's AI memory chip suppliers
have scaled up capacity to support the
company. TSMC CEO confirmed Wang's
request, saying the chip maker expects
[music] record sales every year. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Mihara later
on this hour. [music] Up next on the
program, finding a resolution.
>> After 40 long days, I'm hopeful that we
can finally bring the shutdown to an
end. This agreement will give Democrats
control of the Senate floor for a vote
on one of our top [music] legislative
priorities.
>> That conversation up next with the
former House Financial Services
Committee Chair, Patrick Mckenry,
[music] live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Tech earnings doing better so far this
morning. Check it out. Nvidia up by 3%.
Alphabet up by 2%. These big names
performing better in the pre-market.
Microsoft has not had a positive day
since it released earnings two
Wednesdays ago. Microsoft this morning
positive by about 1/4 percentage point.
[music] That's the story of a single
name level. At the index level, we look
like this on the NASDAQ, the S&P, and
[music] the Russell. positive territory
up by 0.9 on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by
1.4 on the Russell up by 1.1 and Savanis
this morning finding a resolution
after 40 long days I'm hopeful that we
can finally bring the shutdown to an end
all of us
Republicans and Democrats
who support this bill [music] know that
the time to act is now. This agreement
will give Democrats control of the
Senate floor for a vote on one of our
top legislative priorities, extending
the Affordable Care Act premium [music]
tax credits. This is important when
Republicans control every branch [music]
of government.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Senate advancing a bill to reopen the
government after eight Democrats broke
with party lines to vote alongside
Republicans. Bloomberg's Mika Ser joins
us now for more. Mika, welcome to the
program. Are we close to ending this
thing?
Yes, this is the first time in several
weeks that we've seen some significant
action taken to end the government
shutdown that's now uh wreaking havoc on
the airline industry and starting to
really impact people's pocketbooks when
it comes to the federal workforce. But
the Senate did vote to pass and advance
uh this new uh compromised version of a
continuing resolution and the House is
going to come back this week after
several weeks in recess to take a vote
on it as well. So, we're seeing huge
progress, but it still could be a few
days.
>> What's pushed the change, ma? Was it
just one weekend of travel chaos that
pushed the Democrats to cross the aisle
and get this done?
>> Well, I think that there was a lot of
pressure growing on particularly on
Senate Democrats that uh you know were
really starting to feel the heat. I know
that a lot of the blame was taken on the
Trump administration Republicans, but
Republicans really never wavered in
their position throughout this fight.
So, there was a bipartisan working group
that really came to a compromise. uh
they're guaranteed a vote on a package
that could help extend the uh affordable
health care affordable care act
subsidies that were at the heart of the
fight here for Democrats. Um as well as
some um reel back of riffs and federal
workers that were laid off will be
reinstated um and federal workers are
guaranteed back pay. So th that's really
the crux of it.
>> Making some progress maker. Thank you.
We'll catch up with you in the next
hour. Typically markets don't care about
any of this. They look right through it.
It's growth deferred, not growth
derailed. And we catch up later. We
bounce back all of that. This felt
different towards the end because of the
data blackout, Lisa, that this was
holding back the Federal Reserve from
reducing interest rates. And therefore,
just the idea of the government
reopening gets you a little bit more
clarity. Those on the committee that
were worried about cutting without the
data are going to have the data
potentially in several weeks time.
>> There's the fact that data is affecting
policy. There's also the fact that
everyone says that the longer that any
kind of government shutdown goes on, the
more economic pain there would be. And
this is the longest government shutdown
in history. People talking about the
potential for it to stretch back past 40
days. So all of a sudden you start
thinking one half billion dollars a day.
It starts to add up. You're seeing in
the airline stocks this morning in
particular because they are the ones
that are on the front lines of any kind
of ramifications.
>> Tough weekend if you're at an airport
this weekend. Absolutely brutal. To
build on that conversation, the former
House Financial Services Committee Chair
Patrick Mckenry joins us now for more.
Patrick, welcome to the program. Are
there any potential wrinkles down in
Washington because this market has
decided this one's over?
>> There are always potential wrinkles.
Look, we're talking about human beings
trying to do hard things with major
disagreements on policy and approach.
Um, as we've seen highlighted over the
over the last 40 days and actually in
recent years. So, the wrinkles here are
that you had just enough Democratic
votes in the Senate to break the
filibuster that enables a vote to reopen
the government. The mechanism to that is
as outlined by our correspondent. Um
this is the same uh deal that the
Democrats could have had in the first
week of the government shutdown the
beginning of October. Uh so nothing
changed other than political pain and
political calculus. Um it also gave the
Democratic party the opportunity to
highlight uh an issue where they have
strength, healthcare. Uh they
highlighted that for 40 days. That
didn't move the political narrative. uh
that didn't bring the president into the
game on negotiations and this remained a
congressional fight while the president
uh was actively engaged on economic
policy and foreign policy. So hard to
see that much changed here and in many
respects you look at Washington the
markets look at Washington and say same
as it ever was and that isn't that is in
fact the case today. Well, which raises
this question in particular about Chuck
Schumer, uh, the Senate minority leader
who is one of the defections to vote for
the reopening of the government. You
said that this doesn't look a lot
different than it was earlier. What do
you make of that decision given the fact
that some Democrats were saying there
was actually some unity in the party for
a bit to fight back or keep the
government shut? What does this signify
about that?
>> Well, two things. Uh, one, there is a
divide within the Democratic party. We
saw that highlighted by two moderate
governors. uh elected in Virginia and
New Jersey. That was a highlight that
the Democrat uh Democratic Party uh
wanted to make. Uh but uh you also had
the election of a socialist mayor of New
York, which I know we've talked quite a
bit about uh with Mandami. uh and that
also highlights the progressive left
where there's action activity in the
Democratic party uh but major uh
dividing point when it comes to uh
Israel when it comes to uh whether the
definition of anti-semitism highlighted
within the democratic left uh and this
this shutdown this cave at the end of
the shutdown for Democrats highlights
the divide within the party further the
second piece I would remind my
Democratic friends is uh when
Republicans moved to shut the government
down, previously it was dumb policy and
dumb strategy. And what the Democratic
party did was uh by that dumb policy and
dumb strategy uh and double down on it
for the longest government shutdown
ever. Not really adept and uh showed
really a missed a missed opportunity for
the Democrats uh here. At the same time,
you have to wonder how the Republicans
are responding to uh what the government
shutdown really highlighted in a lot of
circles, which is the cost of living
concerns that really have become the
preeeminent uh economic and frankly
political issue. How are they addressing
it? How sufficient do you feel like some
of the moves on that side have been?
>> Well, look, the the party in power
always has onus on them to perform for
the economy and to deliver on the the
pledges of the last election. President
Trump rode a wave winning all the seven
battleground states uh winning the
biggest election he's been a part of um
and getting a mandate on cost of living
addressing the cost of living in the
last election. One year in we still see
that highlighted from the populace from
the voting populace. This is the work
that Republicans have to be focused on
in order to be successful the midterms
in a year. Um, and so I see that as a as
a recurring theme that the Republicans
are trying to address. They try to
address it with uh uh with tax policy.
They've tried to address it with healthc
care policy. The president's very
focused on this uh with pharmaceutical
uh costs uh as well as uh overall cost
that he's working through uh at the
administrative level. So that is really
the key issue is the hottest issue in
America today and has not subsided
because we've not seen the economic
results that the president uh the
president outlined. But he has more time
before Republicans are back on the
ballot one year from now.
>> What's your reaction to some of the
proposals so far? We opened up the
program by talking about the $2,000
tariff dividend, plus some conversation
over the weekend as well about 50-year
mortgages. What's your reaction to those
proposals?
Look, I mean to affect the cost afford
affordability, you have to address the
cost of affordability. These are these
are things that uh that the
administration can take an approach to.
Uh but it doesn't actually have a net
effect in in a long-term systemic way.
Uh we've got to actually uh we've got to
actually get our economy going in the
direction the president pled pledged
during the campaign. Uh the tax cuts
have to start having effect. the
regulatory policies have to be more
aggressively put in place, deregulatory
policies to get this economy moving
again. Um, and those are the things that
are going to they're going to have the
positive impact on the American people.
Uh, the two issues you outlined here uh
are would be helpful uh in in the short
term uh but also that doesn't get to the
substance the issue of affordability uh
which tax policy, regulatory policy can
have a better effect on.
>> Patrick, appreciate your take. Thank
you, sir. The former House Financial
Services Committee Chair Patrick Mckenry
there. Shout out to Jared Seabourg of TD
Cameron who put this note out just last
week. We expect Democrats will make the
economy as the key message heading into
the midterm elections next year. This
may represent a risk to financials as
the president may respond by embracing
populist policies, including some he
raised during the campaign. Something to
watch after the developments over the
weekend,
>> which also speaks to the $2,000 rebate
from the tariffs. I do want to clarify
something, correct? something that I
said, Senator Chuck Schumer did vote no
after a wobbling. There were some
conflicting reports. This though, to
your point, this health crisis is so
severe, so urgent, so devastating for
families back home that I cannot in good
faith support the CR. So, there is this
question of how both parties are going
to make this the pre-minent issue.
>> There certainly questions about his
leadership right now. Anyway, Jared
Seabour, just to pick up on that quote,
Jared's talking about the potential to
revisit some of the conversations they
were having about maybe putting a cap on
interest rate cuts on credit cards. Do
we go back to that in the coming weeks
and months? Now, the way you heard
Patrick Mckenry describe things was a
shift towards deregulation. I just
wonder if things might go in the other
way.
>> You know, there's this political circle
that when it goes far enough, it unites
on one end and it feels like we're very
much at that level. The problem is there
is a real cost of living concern and
crisis and so there's a real question of
how does that get fixed and what you're
seeing is a lot of companies are
absorbing cost increases which tells
you, you know, we really are in an
economy where you are getting push back
from consumers. Can you have the hot
economy that everyone is talking about
without [music] the participation of a
pretty significant part of the US
economy?
>> Got a hot market this morning on the S&P
500 higher by 0.9%.
Up next, we'll catch up with Brandon
Oaklinsky of Barclays following a
weekend of travel [music] chaos. Plus,
Danny has your morning movers. Nvidia
leading a tech stock rally. Their stock
is up by 3%.
>> [music]
>> Bouncing back this morning on the S&P
500, higher by 0.9%. Bouncing back from
these losses. The biggest weekly loss
since early October. On the benchmark,
on the NASDAQ, [music] down by 3%, the
worst week since early April this
morning, up by 1.4%. [music] In the bond
market, twos and tens. Those yields look
like this. high by three basis points on
twos [music] to 359 10's up to 41258
last week basically unchanged on the
week but Lisa we talked about this so
[music] many times unchanged on the week
but so choppy from one session to the
next bouncing off bad data points good
data points fed doves and fed hawks that
tension in that tug of war is really
building going into next month
>> this is a bond market without an anchor
[music] we don't understand the data
because we're not getting it and frankly
we don't understand the reaction
function right now there is a 65%
[music] % chance being priced into
markets of a December Fed rate cut. That
is down from 92.3% the day before the
Fed uh rate decision last month. So it
shows just how much you have seen a
reassessment in and what the Fed could
potentially do.
>> Getting closer to ending this government
shutdown in Washington DC bring on the
data. There's a view that in the next
couple of days if it ends you get the
payrolls data [music] from September
almost immediately and then the tough
work starts. You've got to actually
collect the information to put the data
together for all the other months we've
missed so far. If you had questions
about the credibility of data before,
start looking at backdated data where
people go around and say, "Well, did you
have a job [music] on this date? How did
you feel about it?" It raises a question
of how much you can actually trade off
this and whether the Fed's going to look
at it at all or whether they have other
metrics. They're looking at the
alternative data like the Challenger job
cuts, University of Michigan sentiment
survey to really get a gauge of what
they should do.
>> If you're building Fed policy on
challenger and you match, we got a
problem, haven't we?
>> Well, what else you going to build on
right now?
>> 100 basis points if that's all we've
got.
>> Well, fair point. to your bonos this
morning up by three basis points 359 as
we count you down to the opening bell
the [music] cash open three hours away
with your morning movers here's Danny
with more hey Danny
>> hey John leading the charge and the
general positive sentiment for equities
markets this morning is Nvidia shares up
3% [music]
so you have hoped maybe a government
shutdown closer to coming to an end but
you [music] pointed out just how poorly
markets did last week was the poster
child for that too fell 7% its [music]
worst week since early April so there is
some dip buying going on this morning
Elsewhere, Robin Hood also one of the
biggest gainers in the S&P 500 [music]
this morning. Vlad Tennith, the CEO,
giving an interview to the FT where he
said that they're going to be launching
a new platform [music] on Robin Hood
where retail investors can buy pieces of
private AI companies. He didn't name
which one. He didn't say whether they'll
have Open AI on there, but they'll have
something. He basically said he's not
worried about a bubble in AI. He just
wants to give everyday investors access
[music] to those kinds of high growing
companies. So those shares are up just
under 4%. Finally, the saga over Metera,
the obesity pill startup has come to an
end. The bidding war has finalized with
Novo Nordis bowing out those shares ADRs
in the US are rising after that. Fiser
had matched Nova Nordis' price target
for it, which is about $65. [music]
Uh because we're not getting this
bidding war unfolding. And because that
[music] price that they're going to be
paying for Metsa is below where we are
right now, we're just under $71. You're
seeing Met Sarah shares fall about
[music] 14 and a.5%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, the Senate taking
steps towards ending the government
shutdown. Eight Democrats crossing the
aisle supporting a deal to fund multiple
departments and pay furoughed workers.
The deal must be approved by the House
later this week. Elsewhere, TSMC
reporting slowing growth in monthly
revenue. The slump coming even as Nvidia
CEO Jensen Wang is seeking more chip
supplies from TSMC to meet high demands.
And finally, President Donald Trump
floating the idea of a tariff dividend
of at least $2,000. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson weighing in. The
$2,000 dividend could come in lots of
forms. You know, it could be just the
the tax decreases that we are seeing on
the president's agenda. You know, no tax
on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on
social security, deductibility of auto
loans. So, you know, those are
substantial deductions that, you know,
are being financed in the tax bill.
>> The president posting that every
American would be paid, not including
high-income people. The Treasury
Secretary is getting very good at this
game, isn't it? Over the weekend,
dancing around that post by the
president.
>> So, what President Trump was talking
about was actually a $2,000 check. And
then what we heard is maybe this is
going to be a marketing ploy where some
of the uh initiatives that have already
been passed get rebranded as a President
Trump tariff rebate. So it raises a
question which is it right which is the
pre-minent concern. Is it trying to get
people to understand that yes cost of
living is a concern for this
administration or is it to try to plug
the deficit and the revenue driving
aspects of some of these tariffs? That
was clearly a nuance within what
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessett was
talking about as he continued to say
longer term this really is about
bringing competition back to the United
States but it also can be beneficial for
you with a tax. I think it's fair to say
based on that response from Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson what he'd like
this to be. Right. I think it's fair to
say
>> there is not a mathematical way to make
this work without causing a real problem
in the bond market. Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson has said repeatedly he is
very much a pro-American policy maker
with respect for the markets. So he
understands how far he can push and the
market push back will put that into some
perspective. Right now, this is not a
bond market that would be accepting of a
$2,000 check to every single American,
especially given what happened the last
time that we had a policy where people
got checks. What do they do? They go out
and spend it. What does that do? It
leads to inflation. And oh yeah, by the
way, it also increases the deficit. Not
a bond friendly kind of recipe.
>> Yeah, would make that Fed decision even
harder in about a month's time. Plus, of
course, we still got a Supreme Court
decision about the tariffs themselves
still to come, maybe before year end.
Let's turn back to the government
shutdown, the longest ever. The
transportation secretary, Sean Duffy,
warning of major disruptions to air
travel. As Thanksgiving approaches,
>> you're going to see air travel be
reduced to a trickle. We have a number
of people who want to get home for the
holidays. They want to see their family.
They want to uh celebrate this great
American holiday. And listen, many of
them are not going to be able to get on
an airplane.
>> Joining us now, Brandon of Barclays,
covering the major airlines and has been
following the news over the weekend.
Chaos. Can you offer us some data? Just
how bad were things over the weekend?
Yeah, good morning, John. Thanks for
having us on. I mean, I the stats are
still not final, but I think it was
close to one in 10 flights canceled
yesterday and one out of three, if not
even more delayed. And I think that
actually buries the fact that a lot of
these delays were running in the two to
three or four hours. We're even talking
about your colleague that was like
switched between many hubs in the US.
So, I really uh feel for anyone that had
to travel uh you know over the weekend
and we think oh it's like just for fun
but no there's lots of things that you
actually have to do like from a family
perspective if someone unfortunately
passes or you have a wedding but these
events don't move and unfortunately we
can't get our federal government
employees paychecks.
>> So I think what we're seeing is the
compounding issue that these folks have
gone now what about a month and a week
or even longer without paycheck. I think
for a lot of folks in this country that
would be a really difficult situation.
super difficult to assess, but based on
your high level assessment over the
weekend, how much of that disruption was
travel related to weather disruption and
related to the government shutdown?
>> You know, it all gets blurred lines
because what initially happened, the FAA
came out, I believe on Wednesday and
said, "Hey, we're going to cut 10% of
flights at the top 40 major airports,
which effectively means a 10% cut
systemwide because everyone flies into
or out of the 40 major airports." Uh,
but then they walked that back and said,
"We're only going to do 4% for the
weekend." So, we saw about a four or 5%
cancel rate on Friday. That stepped up a
little bit on Saturday. But the issue is
once you get crews, planes, uh, and
everyone out of place, then you add in a
little bit of mix of weather and TSA
lines that were looking really terrible
at most major airports yesterday. And
that's what can really then spiral out
of control.
>> Let's see. Okay, go. Let's say the
government does reopen on Friday.
>> Yep.
>> How quickly will it take for air traffic
to normalize? Uh, I I would think you
give this maybe a day or two because
generally you can recover pretty
quickly. It takes about a day or two
days to figure out where all your crews
are to get the p pilots and the planes
and the flight attendants in the right
place and assuming that TSA and FAA can
get back to full staffing levels.
>> You know, uh, Treasury Transportation
Secretary uh, Duffy was talking about
how air traffic controllers work long
hours. They have very stressful jobs.
They make about $100,000 a year. We've
been talking about recruitment issues.
We've been talking about staffing issues
for a long time. Why can't this be fixed
where people maybe are paid a little bit
more, given recruiting bonuses, trained,
and maybe paid by an entity that's not
going to occasionally shut down?
>> Well, it it's a little bit antiquated
the way we train uh FAA controllers in
this country. And I think it takes about
two or three years just to get certified
to then be an actual controller. And
that's where there's a lot of wash out
uh with folks that say, I this isn't
really cut out for me. So, I think pay
could be a piece of that. Now remember,
it's a unionized job set. It's
contractual. Uh but I think more
importantly, we need to really look at
the modernization of our ATC system. If
you if we could walk into a control
tower today, you would actually see
paper slips, which is how we manage
flights. Uh even today, and I think
everyone remembers the Newark headlines
from this past summer when, you know, we
had control uh scope outages and things
like that. That doesn't mean the system
isn't safe. It just means it's running
on technology literally from the 1950s
and60s. We still haven't gotten really
beyond that.
>> How much was the slowdown really due to
the mandate from trans uh transport
transportation secretary Duffy versus
what actually was going on on the
ground? Well, I should be careful in the
way I answer this because I did speak to
a few of the airlines and I think
they're trying to be very quiet
politically, but I think the view is
that the system was actually holding up
through mid last week. And so
potentially maybe this initial 10% then
they wiped it back to a 4% cut was maybe
more of a political negotiating tool.
>> Brandon, just to pick up on the airlines
that you cover, who's doing well right
now? Who bounces back from this quicker
than others? Um, well, it's going to be
difficult for all the airlines to
recover because when you start looking
at 10% schedule cancellations again,
you're moving your crews and planes out
of place, but I can tell you the good
operators have really been Delta and
United. Now, that's both operationally
and commercially. And it's a little bit
easier for the large network airlines
because between American, Delta, United,
and Southwest, they each control roughly
20% market share here in the US.
Especially for the three network
airlines, they have regional jets and
regional airline partners. That's where
a lot of the cancellations have been
focused. So, it minimizes impact on
their passenger accounts. That just
means it's a little bit easier for those
networks to recover.
>> On the S&P 500, we often talk about the
Max 7 and everyone else. In the airlines
business, it just feels like Delta,
United, and then everyone else.
>> Is that the way you summarize things?
>> Yeah. I mean, we're not even talking
anywhere close to mag seven valuations.
Talking six times I da if we're lucky.
But yes, I think Delta, you know, did it
first. They said, "Look, we're going to
decommoditize travel." And they've done
a pretty good job of that. United said
very quickly, "Wow, we actually have a
bigger network globally. Why aren't we
doing the same thing?" So, I think two
maybe slightly different cultures, but
Scott Kirby in Chicago at United and Ed
Bastion down in Atlanta has really got
both those organizations trying to win.
>> Is American catching up?
>> Um, Robert Eisman team down in Fort
Worth, I think they're trying their
best. Uh, but the profitability just
trails those two pretty significantly.
And I think there were some product and
commercial decisions made years ago and
a lot of stock buybacks that leaves them
with a lot of leverage that puts them in
a little bit more challenging spot.
>> Brandon, it's good to see you. Thanks
for dropping by. Thank you Brandon
Okalinsky there of Barclays. And a shout
out to any of you who suffered from the
fallout over the weekend because the
delays I heard from a couple of people
who were at airports for like six, seven
hours waiting for things to progress and
move along.
>> Yeah. And that is if their planes took
off and weren't cancelled midway. So, we
were talking about whether you mentioned
this earlier, John, whether it would
just take one bad weekend for the
government to reopen again. And it
really does raise a question. Was it
trying to up the ante earlier, get it
done before Thanksgiving? Because
ultimately, this is typically the key
negotiating factor.
>> Look, we don't know what was in the
minds of all these people who were
involved, but certainly that's how
things played out, right? One weekend
and it looks like things are moving
along and getting done.
>> My gut feeling is that air traffic
controllers are pretty upset because
they feel very devoted to their jobs.
And if you actually speak to any of
them, they're very assiduous about it.
So the fact that they're getting blamed
for calling out sick makes them very
angry.
>> They're right to be angry and
frustrated. If you're just joining us,
welcome to the program. Equities
bouncing back were high by 0.9% on the
S&P with an update on news worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us,
here's your for more. Hey yara.
>> Hi [music] John. President Donald Trump
pardoned people who were allegedly
involved in the attempt to overturn
[music] the 2020 presidential election.
Those parted included Rudy Giuliani,
Cydney Powell, Mark Meadows, [music]
and several 2020 campaign aids accused
of sending false electoral lists from
three states to Congress in an in an
effort to keep Trump in power.
Meanwhile, New York Fed President John
Williams warning that the widening
economic divide is a serious threat
[music]
to US resilience. In an interview with
the Financial Times, Williams notes that
while the stock market is up at record
levels, high inflation and housing costs
[music]
are forcing many to live monthtomonth,
calling the Fed's December rate decision
a difficult balancing act. And Jeff
Bezos [music] backed Blue Origin
postponed planned second flights of its
new Glen rocket due to weather
conditions and [music] unspecified
ground equipment issues. The mission
aims to send two spacecraft on a
trajectory toward Mars [music]
for New Glenn's first NASA mission. It's
seen as a crucial test for the company
[music] in its quest to challenge
SpaceX. Dr. Bloomberg Re
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. Up next on the program,
consumers [music] cutting back.
>> We have seen um softer performance from
or softer demand from lower income
consumers. We're really seeing evidence
that it's it's broadening out and
[music] um and rising up the income
spectrum to more middle- inome
households as well.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Dana
Peterson of the Conference Board live
from New York City this morning. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
So, here's the bounce this Monday
morning. Equities higher on the S&P by
close to 1% on the NASDAQ. North of
that, higher by 1.5. More to come.
[music] According to Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley, quote, "Well, overhangs
from Fed guidance and the shutdown of
weigh on recent price action. These are
temporary [music] headwinds on the way
to a solid 2026 driven by earnings
growth.
>> Yeah. Talking about how this earning
season has been much stronger than
expected. [music] Uh S&P companies
posting a nearly 15% jump in third
quarter profits. This is what he's
pointing [music] to, saying maybe the
headline level won't necessarily reach
the heights that some people are
expecting, but the broadening out will
be substantial [music] and there'll be a
lot of opportunity there.
>> It's quite phenomenal, isn't it?
Doubledigit earnings growth. Can you
imagine having that conversation [music]
at the start of April when the president
rolled out that tariff policy that we'd
be sitting here 6 7 months later talking
about doubledigit earnings [music]
growth.
>> People would have said you're insane and
that had to mean that everything was
walked back which I mean it did come
down from the highest levels but it was
not walked back. You just wonder how
much that can be continued [music]
particularly in consumerf facing uh
businesses given the push back you are
seeing from consumers. This is not an
even economy and how much does that
unevenness matter [music] on a more
macro level. Let's talk about that.
Right now under Savannah this morning,
consumers cutting back.
>> We have seen um [music] softer
performance from or softer demand from
lower income consumers. That's been
happening probably for the better part
of the last 2 years. And now we're
really seeing evidence that [music] it's
it's broadening out and um and rising up
the income spectrum to more middle-
inome households as [music] well. The
middle- inome consumer, we know that
cohort transactions have also declined.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Consumer sentiment sinking to near the
lowest on record as high prices and the
government shutdown weigh on spending.
Dana Peterson at the conference board
writing both present situation and
expectations indices continue to edge
downward as consumers persist in
worrying about business conditions and
the labor market. Dana joins us now for
more. Dana, welcome to the program. You
follow consumer confidence and of course
business confidence as well. How well
aligned are the two at the moment?
>> They're pretty well aligned. Both
businesses and consumers are wary about
the economy going forward. Um businesses
are deciding that they're going to
continue to just wait and see what
happens regarding tariffs. Um as well as
regulatory issues and fiscal policy.
Meanwhile, consumers um you know, we saw
a big drop in consumer confidence
earlier this year. And that's that's our
measure, the conference sports measure.
Um, and it's kind of stabilized and
moving backward, uh, moving back and
forward over the last few months, but
it's still much lower than it was
pre-tariff announcements.
>> Dana, how unusual is it to see this
level of anxiety about the labor market
from consumers whilst we run GDP at the
levels we're running at right now, close
to 3%.
Well, this is actually a new thing um
apart from the pandemic where over the
last few years consumers were mainly
complaining about inflation but not
about their job prospects. This year is
very different. Many consumers
understand that tariffs can lead to
higher prices and also those higher
prices might mean that businesses cut
their uh workforces. And so we're just
seeing like the natural progression of a
pullback in consumer spending similar to
most recession threats. Now most
consumers um think that there's probably
a lower likelihood of recession going
forward. But still in all they're very
much worried about what their job
prospects are now for those who have
been let go and then also what job
prospects might look like in the future
six months from now. Dana, how much
dispersion are you seeing in the income
groups with respect to confidence?
>> Well, it's it's interesting. Um, overall
the younger groups tend to always be
much more confident than the older
groups. Um and all three measures
meaning you know under 35, between 35
and 55 and over 55 dipped this year but
we're seeing a little bit of a recovery
I think as there's been some clarity
especially on the fiscal policy front in
terms of what spending and tax cuts uh
will look like over the next decade or
so.
>> One thing that we've seen over the past
couple of years is that confidence and
sentiment hasn't always cohered with
people's spending patterns. They might
feel terrible, they'll still go out and
buy a big meal or buy a new handbag. How
much are you tracking any kind of
breakdown in that kind of dissonance?
Because that really has been one thing
people have continued to say, watch what
they do, not what they say.
>> Absolutely. And we do uh keep track of
various uh spending on goods and also
services. When it comes to goods, we're
actually seeing a pickup in desires to
purchase homes, cars, and electronics.
And that could be a reflection of the
fact that consumers are anticipating
lower interest rates going forward.
Certainly the Fed did cut um a couple of
months ago and once the shutdown's over,
we anticipate they'll continue to cut.
So we're looking at lower interest rates
that might boost good spending. When it
comes to services, we are seeing a shift
where consumers are engaging in cheap
thrills like takeout or streaming over
more expensive types of activities like
uh travel. Um that also we're noticing
that consumers are switching are
focusing more on necessary services. So
for example, health care or car
maintenance while they're forgoing more
discretionary and/or expensive types of
activities like um going to museums or
sporting events and even child care,
cheap thrills, the idea of taking out
Chipotle. Woo. It's just a hilarious
[laughter] kind of example. I am curious
going forward whether you do see any
ramifications from the government
shutdown. Whether you think that any of
the political dysfunction has made its
way into some of these surveys or if
that's really just noise for the most
part.
>> Well, we do ask consumers a question.
It's kind of a fill in the answer type
question where we say, "What do you
think right now is impacting the
economy?" It's not we don't ask up or
down or for the better or the worse. We
just say impact. But people do write
long things and certainly long answers
and certainly there's a big f still a
big focus on inflation. Um tariffs have
moved down a little bit but we did see a
pop in people mentioning the shutdown
and uh the sentiment on all of those
things from people who wrote longer
answers were all pretty negative.
>> Dana just want to wrap up by some of the
proposals and bring up some of the
proposals over the weekend from the
president. $2,000 checks, the prospect
of maybe a 50-year mortgage as well. As
an economist, how would that change your
assessment of this economy if we started
to see those kind of policies
implemented in Washington?
>> Well, they do sound inflationary, and
I'm not sure how many people would take
out a 50-year mortgage. I mean, you're
still trying to pay it when you're 100
and in a nursing home. Um, so I I I also
think that $2,000, you know, you can
spend that in a in a day for a lot of
lower income and even middle- inome
consumers. That's that's rent for many
people. Um, and so it doesn't address
the issue that prices price levels are
still going to be elevated because
you're seeing these tariffs being pushed
through by businesses. So, it's kind of
a short-term solution, but not really a
long-term solve. Dana, appreciate the
update and the reaction. Thank you, Dana
Peterson there, the conference board. I
see this from politicians all the time
from both sides of the political
spectrum. I've seen in the UK with the
housing market repeatedly. You need to
do something on the supply side. You
need to do something on the supply side.
Look at this. I've got a demand side
solution. Look at this. I've got a
demand side solution. And we're hearing
the same thing from Washington over the
weekend.
>> Give more money. Have a better uh
mortgage situation. Not necessarily
build more houses because ultimately it
has to come through the building
mechanism. Look, this is going to be a
question and it's not just the $2,000
rate rebate idea, but there will be cash
that will be given back to consumers in
the beginning of next year as a result
of some of the recent legislation. So,
you have to wonder what that's going to
do both on the inflation side, but also
on the just economic activity side. And
this is the reason why so many people
who come on this show have been bullish.
They're saying, "Wait for next year.
It's going to be a pop."
>> Speaks to the divide on the FOMC right
now. We'll have more on that divide in
the next couple of hours on this
program. Up next, we'll catch up with
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods,
Janette Lois Strategus, Megan Swiber
[music] of Bank for America, and Lindsay
Pza of Ste. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
The picture for the economy on a go
forward basis are is actually pretty
decent. We're still very much subjected
to that K economy.
>> Inflation is still around three. The
labor market is still okay. [music] What
is the argument for cutting rates?
>> Our base case is for further easing.
>> There is only so much that [music]
monetary policy can do. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, [music] and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. We're
bouncing back up by 0.9% on the S&P 500.
On the NASDAQ 100, up by 1.5% in the
bond market. Bonds down, yields up
across the curve. 10-year bond yields so
far this morning by three basis points
for 1258 as this government [music]
takes a big step towards ending a
record-l long government shutdown. So
the idea here maybe is that consumer
activity will pick back up if people
were planning not to go on their
Thanksgiving trips. Maybe they can
reinstate those family plans. They don't
have an excuse [music] not to see uh
Aunt Becky. So good luck. But there is
this question of how much this is going
to potentially add to optimism that can
also fuel some sort of Santa rally which
a lot of people have been expecting.
>> How orchestrated were the events over
the weekend just to push these
politicians to to get something done?
>> I was called cynical last week for
suggesting this. So I don't want to
suggest that this was all uh political
minations. However, we just had a guest
on who said that a lot of the airlines
quietly [music] are suggesting that
there was capacity to deal with all of
the uh flights that they had planned.
Look, either way, it highlights that
this always has been the pain point.
[music] There does seems to be some
resolution to possibly move this forward
and then to potentially get a vote if
there is a vote to reopen the
government. What happens next? A flood
of government data, a flood of questions
around what that means for the Federal
Reserve.
>> You hope, and I hope too, maybe a drip
to start the September payrolls report.
And then you've got to do some real
work. do some real work to collect the
economic data, all the little data
points to finally release the economic
[music] data to the general public.
>> If you ever were worried about the
credibility of markets and the
credibility of labor market data or just
market data in general, this is the time
to do it because not only have you had
staffing cuts [music] of some 30% in
some of these agencies to collect the
data, but you also are going back and
asking people what they felt a month ago
when they were getting laid off. And
it's a different kind of story. A real
question here about the accuracy and
whether the Fed needs this, whether they
already have all the data they need to
make a decision.
>> The data blackout I think became market
negative [music] last week for two
reasons. Point one would be we started
to put emphasis on lousy data when we
typically wouldn't put emphas emphasis
[music] on this kind of lousy data.
Third tier data like challenger job cut
suddenly became important. That's point
one. Point two is also I think there was
a consensus coming into this government
shutdown that even without the data the
Fed wouldn't deviate from the median
dot. I think Chicago Fed President
Austin Gorsby poured some cold water on
that in the last week and the bias
started to shift. The view became that
actually because we're flying blind
[music] now, maybe they'd just wait.
Maybe they'd wait another meeting and
wait until we get some more data.
[music]
>> A real question around if inflation is
running hotter than expected and we are
getting such messy noise around the
labor market picture. Maybe we shouldn't
cut rates in December. I keep going back
to Fed [music] funds futures. a 65%
chance of a December rate cut right now
priced in down from 92% the day before
the Fed meeting. So definitely cold
water poured by Fed chair Jay Powell but
the ongoing run of Fed speak [music] has
raised further questions about just how
desperate the opinions on the Fed are.
>> Bon's up today by close to three basis
points 10 of 41238 equities higher by 1%
on the S&P 500. Coming up this hour
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Saxs and Woods as investors look to
recover losses. Janette Lowe of
Strategus with the Senate taking a first
step towards ending the government
shutdown and Megan Swiper of Bank of
America predicting a December Fed pause.
We begin this out with stocks gaining
some ground. Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax
and Woods writing, "Inves investors are
seeking refuge in companies that
demonstrate financial resilience,
prioritizing steady dividend growers and
firms with the strong free cash flow
needed to weather a downturn." Sarah
joins us now for more. Sarah, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> There's some tech companies determined
to eat into that cash flow, aren't they?
They are definitely determined to eat
into it and I think that between that
and the fact that they're raising some
debt is what's given some people some
pause on the story right now. So I think
you mentioned earlier today sticker
shock that people are getting from some
of these investments. So I think that
there is an issue there.
>> So it's AI the consumer slowdown. I
mentioned that note from Stuart Kaiser
of City. There's been a range of reasons
for the pullback. What do you think is
the dominant one in the last week?
>> It's interesting. I think it's really
the end of all of it. And I think the
government shutdown didn't matter until
it started to matter. And when you start
to see those pain points, people start
thinking about when do we get this
resolved? How do we get this resolved?
And how bad does it make things going
forward? And I think all of a sudden
that started to matter again. You start
to layer in enough things and and it's
the totality of them I think more than
in individual one. Is it noise or signal
the sell-off that we saw last week? Is
it something that is viable and just a
blip that offers opportunities or is it
signaling that there is some weakness
under the surface that needs to be paid
attention to? I think the magnitude of
some of the declines on the misses gives
you a little bit more pause than you
would have normally. I think you know
there's nothing wrong with having the
market stabilize andor have some sort of
a downdraft for a while after hitting
record high after record high after
record high. So this is not like there's
some massive change underneath. But I do
think that there is some willingness now
to look out and say these better grow
these earnings better grow into some of
these valuations andor these valuations
are on a high level. Markets don't
generally correct because of valuation,
but it certainly could give things
pause. And I don't think you've seen a
major downdraft here, but you definitely
have seen some under the surface. You've
seen a lot more percolating and bigger
draw downs than you normally would in
individual names. One thing that's
raised some concerns, at least in
conversations that I've had, is that one
of the biggest players in the space is
OpenAI. And OpenAI is a private company
that's expanding very rapidly and has
circular deals with all of the big tech
players. and you don't have visibility
into what they're doing, who they're
hiring, how they're spending, or what
their plans to growth grow in terms of
specific new programming. How much does
that give you true pause and actually
make you lighten up some of your uh
exposure to the AI players?
>> I think the real question is the
functionality and how we are going to
use everything. I I don't disagree on
the open AI and I think that part of the
issue was the sort of discussion around
whether or not there needed to be
guarantees or needed to be this or
needed to be that. In the end, we're
going to need a lot more power. Are we
going to need as much as we think we
are? I'm not sure. I think that there
will be efficiencies in there, but I
think that the overall build is going to
continue. The an emphasis on chat GPT of
all of the different large language
models is is one, but there are other
ones out there. But I do think that the
circular financing started to cause
people some to question it. And every
time the questions come is when you
start to see that NASDAQ wobble. One
reason why this has been such a
difficult economy and market to call is
because you have the sort of secular
tech trade. John's talked a lot about
this overlaid on what could be a
cyclical shift in the underlying
economy. How much are you seeing a
cyclical shift to the downside in some
of the recent earnings reports, whether
it's fast uh fast retailers, fast casual
restaurants, or whether it's some of the
other margin compression we've seen in
other stores versus a sort of bottoming
out in some ways like the Mike Wilsons
of the world seem to think. Well, this
is going to come down to and this is
where the tricky the data being not
available is tricky. It's going to come
down a lot to the labor market in the
near term because what is happening
there is going to I think inform both
the Fed and some other areas of what's
going to happen next. And I think it's
hard to figure out right now if people
are if that's an AI problem, if it's an
inflation problem, if it's a cost
problem. All those different pieces are
swelling together. And without data,
it's kind of hard to get a gut check on
that. But I don't know that you're
having a major major change until we
really start to understand how to use
the tools. So I'm not sure that it's a
it's a it's a secular shift in the labor
market as so much as we have some
cyclical issues going on at some higher
cost.
>> Sarah, something's going on though.
Earnings growth fantastic. So
corporations seemingly are making money.
Employment growth is terrible. GDP is
tracking really well at the moment.
Could change given the government
shutdown, but at the moment tracking
quite well. And yet employment growth is
pretty terrible based on various
indicators. What gives? What explains
that?
>> I think it's a combination of there's
still some scar tissue of letting too
many people go and people not wanting to
let people go if they think there's
going to be some growth. But I think
that the movement in jobs is part of the
problem. It's sort of like the movement
in houses is part of the problem because
unless you can get, you know, it's
interesting they were talking about
making mortgages assumable again, which
they weren't for a while. Unless you can
get you can keep somebody's old
mortgage, there's a lot of stuckness in
the housing market. There's some
stuckness in the labor market because
people don't necessarily want to let
people go and see what happens next. And
I don't know how that resolves itself in
the near term. It's harder to get a job
now than I think it probably was a few
months ago. It's certainly from a
younger person's standpoint, very
difficult to get a job because when I
talked to my younger people, they are
quite worried about that.
>> 50-year mortgages, that's the proposal
over the weekend. Do you buy it? Does
that make sense to you?
>> I think that um your previous guest made
a great point about the fact that that
or you made a great point about the fact
that that's a demand
response and not a supply response. We
need to be able to build more houses. So
there's either a regulatory push that
needs to change. Something needs to
happen where you actually get more
affordable housing built. And that is
the problem right now. Making mortgages
go out to 50 years. Sure, it's like car
loans to 10. It makes it cheaper, but
does it make sense? And is that what you
want to do to yourself from a financial
standoint?
>> Makes it cheaper on a monthly basis, but
over the term of the loan makes it a
whole lot more expensive.
>> And you're paying all the interest up
front. So at a certain point, you're
just paying the interest up front to pay
the actual mortgage back when you're,
you know, 304 years old. Congresswoman
Marjorie Taylor Green pushing back
against this proposal as well.
>> Where is she on the political spectrum
right now
>> really pushing back
>> the circle as we've been saying it
unites on the other end after it gets to
a certain place. There is a populist
tilt right now and we have to keep
pointing to what it is responding to and
it is the cost of living. It is some
structural issues and the real debate
needs to be exactly what the best way is
to to fix those.
>> Sarah, I just want to finish on tech.
You can do single name. So I want to
bring up a single name. Meta and
Microsoft have had a really lousy 30
days and sitting out all this spending
is Apple and Apple has had a really
really good 30 days. Is there a story
there?
>> I think that the difference between
Microsoft and Meta on the spending is
that Meta's had more of a checkered
history on on money spent versus
Microsoft where I don't think you can
make that argument. I think that they're
stuck in a problematic we need more
capacity than we have. And I think for
Apple, there's been another story too
because it's whether or not this is
going to be a refresh year finally after
all the years of hoping that it was
going to be. So I think that there's
some differentiation there. But to the
extent that it's not putting any strain
on Apple's balance sheet, this goes back
to the argument about balance sheets and
cash flow, right? You want to make sure
in an uncertain environment that those
companies are running through the proper
amount of cash and everything else. I
don't think that's a problem for
Microsoft or Meta, but I do think that
on the edges that's starting to make
people more wary, which is why we like
to look for lots of cash.
>> A month ago though, the bias was so
different. Everything with AI related
was up and to the right and up and to
the right aggressively. And a month
later, we're talking about Apple as if
it's spending discipline. And a month
ago, we had people coming on the program
saying they're missing the moment.
They're not spending enough. Is it a
feature or a bug, the discipline of
Apple?
>> It's both depending on exactly what the
psychology is. And I will say that this
year has not been rewarding the people
who are more cautious with their dollars
as much as it's been rewarding the
people who are spending like crazy. But
when people start to worry that that
spending like crazy can't go on, they go
right back to the folks where they think
that there's some discipline there. So
it could be a little bit of a back and
forth. I think it's an and not an or.
Sarah, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you. Sarah Hunt there
of Alpine Sax and words on a tech story.
Tech stories better this morning. NASDAQ
100 high by close to 1.5%. The S&P 500
up by 0.9. Let's get you an update on
news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yahara for
more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. The government shutdown may be
coming to an end. The Senate voted 60 to
40 to advance a bill that would fund
most of the government through the end
of January. [music] Eight moderate
Democrats broke with their party leaders
to advance the bill. The House also
needs to approve the measure before it
goes to the president's desk for his
signature. Meanwhile, Fizer won the
bidding war for the weight loss drug
startup Mitsera. secured the $10 billion
deal after Danish drug maker Novo
Nordisk said it [music] did not plan to
increase its offer. But Sarah cited a
call from the US Federal Trade
Commission regarding [music] potential
risks from proceeding with a proposed
NOVO deal structure. And President
Donald Trump became the first sitting
president in almost 50 years to attend a
regular season NFL game yesterday. The
president watched as the Detroit Lions
defeated the Washington Commanders 44
to22. There were loud boos from some
spec [music] spectators when Trump was
shown on the video board standing in a
suite with House Speaker Mike Johnson.
That's brief. John [music]
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next, Democrats divided.
>> Democrats will [music] not back down.
Fighting to lower health care costs is a
righteous fight.
>> It was our judgment after 6 weeks going
on seven weeks of this shutdown that
that path wasn't working. That
conversation up next would low of
strategica live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[music]
This week is set up to be an absolute
snooze. Check it out. As much as I love
Governor Waller, these are the headlines
for you. Governor Waller is coming up
later this week. On Wednesday, he speaks
G7 meeting the foreign secretary. So,
look out for that. I guess the media
earnings Disney Paramount. I'm not
trying to sell this. There's nothing to
sell. It's very, very quiet through the
trading week. At least on [music] the
schedule.
>> I might get excited about a couple
things.
>> Over threes, tens, and 30s. There's
threes, tens, and 30s in terms of the
auctions. There are a couple of earnings
that will be very interesting.
Cororeweave out later today. I think
that'll be interesting for the AI trade.
Disney coming out. A host of others as
well. So, we do get, you were talking
about some of the uh the entertainment
sphere. Fascinating. We get a lot of Fed
speak and we can really dive into some
of these deep issues because we have the
time because there really isn't. [music]
>> If the shutdown ends and we actually get
some data and they put the payrolls
report on Canada, then I'm all in.
Things will look interesting. So, do you
hear that? Jonathan Pharaoh would like
you to just put the payrolls thing back
on and then he can get excited again.
Otherwise, [music] he's going to strike.
>> You know, might happen by Friday. We'll
see. And then everyone will say, "It's
dated. We don't want September. We want
October."
>> No, I want October, too. But, you know,
like, let's start somewhere.
>> They'll say it's dated and then it will
come out and it will move markets
dramatically. So, [music] you know,
watch what they do, not what they say.
>> Equities bouncing back this morning up
by 0.9% as we take a major step towards
ending this government shutdown. The
NASDAQ higher by 1.4 for under Savannah
this morning. Democrats divided.
>> Democrats will not back down. Fighting
to lower health care costs is a
righteous fight.
>> Those of us certainly participating in
the Democratic caucus are 100% committed
to working on the issue of the ACA
premium tax credits. It was our judgment
after 6 weeks going on 7 weeks of this
shutdown that that path wasn't working.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
longest US government shutdown moving
closer to an end. Eight Senate Democrats
breaking with their party to advance a
funding measure with Republicans.
Bloomberg's Mika Sona joins us now for
more. Ma, is Minority Leader Schumer
losing control of his party?
Well, there's been a lot of criticism of
how leader Chuck Schumer has handled
this whole debacle. Um, I think that
he's facing a lot of uh pressure and and
critiques from not just his Senate
colleagues privately and publicly, but
also the House. House progressives and
the majority of House members, uh,
leader Hakee Jeff, even moderate members
like Angie Craig of Minnesota, for
example, are furious at this deal,
saying that they're not going to vote
for this when it comes to the House. Now
granted, um it's likely to pass with
just Republicans anyway, but uh yes,
definitely uh uh Schumer has taken a lot
of heat from not being able to keep his
caucus together.
>> Ma, what are the next steps? Can you
describe the process over the next few
days to really end this thing?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, I think, you know,
once the Senate gets through here, we're
going to all eyes are going to be on the
House who've been who has been out of
session for the past few weeks. uh you
know, Speaker Mike Johnson has to give
36 hours notice to members and that
means a lot of members will become
flying in back to DC and uh or even
taking long drives due to delays. But um
they're going to have to pass this and
then we're going to have to see what
happens in the next couple of months too
when uh some of the some of the uh
funding levels expire on January 30th,
but that's a fight for another day.
>> Yeah, let's just leave that there for
now. M I don't want to think about that.
Mer there of Bloomberg down in
Washington DC. We're going to do this
all over again very soon. I really hope
not because that would really devastate
a lot of people who are depending on
this income and depending on these
programs. So let's hope that that's not
the case.
>> Janette Lo Strategus joins us now for
more. Janette, welcome to the program. A
significant step. Any wrinkles you'd
point out, potential wrinkles down in
Washington that might delay this from
ultimately ending.
>> Well, yeah, thank you for having me. So
I would say first of all we had seen
that over the past two weeks members of
Congress on both sides of the aisle had
been moving towards figuring out how to
end the shutdown. The pain had
definitely been growing with federal
workers not being paid with SNAP
benefits not going out and then the FAA
restrictions on airspace beginning on
Friday really started to put some
additional pressure on members to get to
a deal. So we thought that coming into
last week there was a deal on the table.
on both sides were looking to see what
would happen in the Tuesday elections,
see who would have the upper hand.
Obviously, Democrats felt emboldened
after that, but at the same time, the
additional pressure of just what is
going on with flight delays, people
still not getting SNAP benefits has
definitely put pressure on members to
come to a conclusion. And we basically
have a very similar deal that was
advanced in the Senate yesterday that
was very similar to what we were seeing
at the beginning of the week. There are
some potential wrinkles here. Obviously,
the Senate could uphold or certain
members of the Senate could uphold the
vote and slow it down. So, they're going
to be looking to get unanimous consent
to stay and see if they can actually get
it out of the Senate um today so that
the House can then move. Um but that
could be a potential issue and
potentially delay it longer. Could House
members have difficulty getting back
into DC? That could be another issue. Um
but they only need a few probably
Democratic votes in the House to get
this across the finish line, and there
are probably enough to do so. So once
they I think overall we do think it's
going to be done hopefully by the end of
the week but there could be some some
wrinkles along the way.
>> Janette, has anything been accomplished
in more than a month that the government
has shut down in terms of understanding
what the issues are, moving policy
forward, preventing this from happening
again,
>> right? I mean, so one of the things
that's always been an issue with a
shutdown is the party that puts the
shutdown into place generally does not
win the concession that they were
looking for to get the shutdown in the
first place. So, Democrats did not get
an extension of the Affordable Care Act
subsidies. Yes, they got an a a promise
to have a vote in December or by
December to do an extension. Um, and we
that may be unsuccessful particularly in
the House. So, that's not necessarily a
win here. I think the for Democrats the
one win that they can point to is
pulling back some of the layoffs during
the shutdown. That was an agreement. I
think appropriators here are happier
because at least they are starting to
get some of these uh FY26 appropriations
bills across the finish line. But
generally the shutdown does not create a
lot of movement. Democrats might also be
able to point to the fact that they've
raised the issue of healthcare
affordability going into the 2026
midterms, but to your point, not a whole
lot has been accomplished. There's also
a question politically of whether the
tone has shifted. Whether it was the
elections that just took place or
whether it's the government shutdown
highlighting some of the issues that
galvanize American voters. How much will
cost of living concerns shape the
remaining couple of months of this of
this year heading into early next. The
idea that the next few months are going
to be dominated by proposals to try to
cater to people who are worried about
cost of living.
>> Absolutely. So, I mean, I think one of
the things is that just again, people
not being paid, food stamp payments not
going out, that has definitely put a lot
of pressure on members to get this
shutdown ended, and that is going to
continue to be an issue going into the
end of the year. Once we get into 2026,
there is actually a lot of um fiscal
policy support for the consumer. Um
there's about $150 billion of tax
refunds that's going to come out in the
February through April tax refund
season. It's actually a 44% increase
from what we had last year. So there is
a lot of support for the consumer
coming. But in the meantime, a lot of
consumers are concerned about prices and
affordability and Democrats and
Republicans have also kind of been
noting this issue as well and talking
about healthcare premiums and SNAP
payments and grocery bills and things of
that nature. So, you are going to
probably see more talk about how can we
help the consumer long term, whether
it's figuring out some other solution
for the ACA subsidies, whether it's the
talk of the the tariff refunds, things
of that nature. Um, but I think that
that is going to be a big concern going
into 2026 and the 2026 midterms. But we
do want to highlight that there is
obviously a lot of consumer stimulus
coming from the tax bill that Congress
passed back in July. Janette, in moments
like these, politicians attempted to do
bad things. And I wonder if we revisit
some of the things on the campaign
trail. For instance, TD Cowan raising
this proposal, maybe the president
thinks about going back to thinking
about capping interest rate costs on
credit cards. Janette, could that come
back on the table?
>> You know, I don't think that is
necessarily something that they're going
to be more focused on. I actually think
that if they were going to do anything,
it would probably be another tax rebate.
Um, you know, Trump obviously brought up
the idea of these tariff rebates.
Secretary Basant kind of indicated over
the weekend that may just be tied to
these uh tax refunds that are coming
next year as part of the one big
beautiful bill act. Um, but I think
they'd be probably more likely to do
direct uh payments to consumers. The
talk about the ACA subsidies not being
subsidies anymore, but being uh direct
payments to maybe like a health savings
account for individuals, putting the
money directly back into people's
pockets. I think that's more likely at
this point um than some of these other
proposals.
>> Janette, appreciate it. Thank you.
Janette Lo there of strateg.
>> Yeah, this is going to be the node of
all debate politically going to toward
the midterms given the fact that this is
the galvanizing factor. Ultimately, the
incumbent party always suffers the blame
for any economic woe that is experienced
in real time and this time is no
different. People feel the overall price
increase. So trying to convince them
that inflation, the rate of increase is
coming down is very difficult. Which is
why you're hearing some politicians uh
Scott Besson, President Trump coming out
and saying actually prices will go down.
How are they going to do that? The idea
of deflation, outright prices going down
unless you get a Chinaike shock similar
to what we've been seeing over there.
>> The President Biden handbook of how not
to do things. Don't pretend it's not
happening and then don't offer demand
side solutions to something that needs a
supply side solution. That's what I
would say is the don't do things
handbook from President Biden, how not
to do things. Uh there is a risk that
they're tempted to reach for that
handbook and do exactly the same thing.
And that's a problem.
>> That's been the proposal so far because
that ultimately [music] is the quick
fix.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Megan Swiper of Bank of America
predicting a Fed pause in next month's
meeting. Plus, Danny has some morning
movers for you. Taiwan semi shares
rising despite slowing revenue growth.
That stock is up by [music] 2%.
A much better time to this market.
Equity futures high up by 0.9% on the
S&P 500. On the NASDAQ 100, high by 1.4.
The Nasdaq bouncing off a 3% loss last
week. The biggest weekly loss since
early April. In the bond market, twos,
tens, and 30s shaping up as follows.
Risk on. That means bonds are lower,
yields are higher, up three basis points
across the curve. Twos up to 359, 10's
this morning up to 41277 going into a
week full of bond auctions across
threes, tens, and 30s.
>> That's pretty much all that there is.
So, we're going to really ramp this up.
We've got $58 billion of three-year
notes being sold today at 1 p.m.
Tomorrow's Veterans Day closed, so
really nothing going on, but we'll be
here. Wednesday, we've got $42 billion
of 10-year notes being auctioned, and
Thursday, $25 billion of 30-year bonds.
At some point, maybe you'll get push
back. The biggest takeaway from these
auctions has been the incredible demand
for income. [music] And frankly, there
is so much cash still slloshing around
the system looking for income that that
has been the full story. Does that
change? Can that change or is that
continuing to be the theme?
>> Don't you think this show should follow
the Treasury market calendar?
>> You know what I think? You're just
baiting me. You're rage baiting me right
now.
>> Should we be on air tomorrow? You know,
Treasury market's closed. What are we
going to talk about?
>> Should the weather be nice? I mean, come
on. obviously, but we're going to be
here and we're going to find lots of
things to talk about and probably uh
it'll be one of the most exciting days
that we could possibly imagine.
>> Snoozy week ahead for you. Oh, come on.
>> If you didn't know, if you look at the
calendar, hardly anything on the
schedule.
>> Watch. Something amazing [music] is
going to happen tomorrow.
>> Danny's going to make it exciting with
your morning movers. Danny has more.
Hey, Danny.
>> Um, I'll do my best, John. I guess if
you own Nvidia, you're making money
today, which is pretty cool and pretty
exciting. That wasn't the case last
week. Shares of Nvidia fell 7%, [music]
its worst week since April. So we are
seeing a rally in the big cap tech
stocks. Maybe some optimism over the
government shutdown too helping things
along. So much optimism even TSMC the US
ADRs are rallying despite the fact it
reported earnings that saw some slowing
growth. But Jensen Hong which Nvidia
their biggest supplier is TSMC said that
they're growing stronger and stronger
every single month. So again both those
shares are higher this morning. We also
had earnings from Bareric Mining.
[music]
The gold miner obviously doing very well
considering what the price of gold has
been doing so well that the CEO flagged
the strong amount of cash flow they had
meant that they could up their dividend.
It's not going to be 12 1.5 cents
quarterly [music]
and they're going to do a 5 cent special
dividend because of that cash flow
performance coming in and they're going
to increase their stock buyback. Another
$500 million have been authorized so far
this year after 1 million already. So
that's 4 and a.5% rally for Bareric
[music] Mining. Finally, ending things
with HCA to the downside, the biggest
loser in the S&P 500 pre-market down 5%.
This looks to be off the back of Dems
getting closer to an agreement on the
government shutdown going forward with
that procedural vote. The fear is is
that the [music] extension of government
subsidies when it came to the American
affordable care act was good for a
company like HCA. Have Dems caved on
this point? Sure, potentially reporting
suggests that there will be a vote on
this in December, but for now those
shares are falling. John,
>> that development behind a lot of market
moves this morning. Danny, thank you for
the update. More from Danny in the next
hour. On our radar this morning, the
Senate advancing a bill to end the
government shutdown with the help of a
group of moderate Democrats, but the
passage of the short-term funding
measure in the House is not guaranteed
due to opposition from Democratic
leaders. Elsewhere, Federal Housing
Director Bill Porty confirming work
towards President Trump's pitch for
50-year mortgages. The administration
making an effort to make housing more
affordable. Critics arguing the loans
are more expensive with less equity. And
finally, the New York Fed President John
Williams saying financial strain on
lower and middle inome Americans could
threaten the US economy. Williams
telling the Financial Times the December
rate decision will be a quote balancing
act. Coming up at 8:30, so about an hour
from now, we'll be speaking with the San
Francisco Fed President Mary Dailyaly.
>> Yeah. And she came out with a blog post
earlier this morning echoing some of the
concerns that John Williams was talking
about. And she asked this question. Are
we in the 1970s or the 1990s? We can't
ignore the 1970s or the post-pandemic
inflation runup, but we can't ignore the
rest of history either. Talking about
trying to take into effect the overlay
of the technological changes of AI
versus a potential cyclical shift in how
to identify either.
>> Do you point to the 70s or the '9s? What
are you coming down on?
>> Honestly, I don't know the answer. I
think that this really is a question in
terms of how big of a shift is AI and
how much does that really increase
efficiency in a dramatic way and how
much do we implement proposals that lead
to price increases and inflationary
forces that start to accompany slower
growth. And that is a similar kind of
smell as the 1970s.
>> If we get $2,000 checks, it might make
that decision a little bit easier.
[laughter]
>> Well, if that continues with anything
else, right? So there is this question
of how do you deal with the fact that
wages are not increasing very quickly at
the lower end and Torsson pointing to
that this morning that that's really
falling behind. We were talking about
that last week with Bank of America and
that really is to me one of the key
questions. If you're not seeing wage
growth and you're not seeing job
creation, well then what are we looking
at at a time where inflation is still
elevated but potentially what's the node
for it to continue to increase if people
aren't getting paid?
>> That's the town right now. If you look
at the labor market, what's behind this
massive drop off in employment growth?
Is it demand cyclical or is it supply?
Is it structural? And is wage growth the
talent at the moment? Because of the
industries that we depend on,
immigration, you'd expect to see wages
push up to attract that talent. Mary
Daly's point, the San Francisco Fed
president, is actually that's not what
you're seeing. So that would lean me
more towards cyclical factors than
structural ones holding this labor
market back.
>> She's saying it's a demand issue for
labor. It's not a supply issue if you're
not seeing the wages really go up
commensurate with what you would be
expecting, which makes her think, okay,
hold on a second. There's something else
going on. and maybe the labor market
needs more support. On the flip side,
other people point to the inflation rate
and the fact that it still has been high
and a lot of people are worried about
cost of living issues. So, at a certain
point, you balance these two, it's a
very difficult moment and I'm not sure
that 1970s or 1990s at the right
correlary. Maybe it's the 2020s
>> 55 minutes away from tying ourselves
into knots with [laughter] President
Daily. Let's stick with the Federal
Reserve. Megan Swiper of Bank of America
writing, "Our House view is still that
the Fed holds off on a cut at the
December meeting and indeed doesn't cut
again until the middle of 2026." Megan
joins us now for more. Megan, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> You're essentially saying that Chairman
P's last cut as Fed chair was last
month. He's done.
>> That's in That's indeed true, John. You
know, ultimately the Fed reaction
function that we see right now, and
we're hearing this from a number of
voters, is this caution around
inflation. And you know, I think to help
answer this question of is it demand, is
it supply related, look at some of the
claims data. Claims is still quite low,
which is a pretty decent sign to me that
people are not um being fired at large,
at least in the private sector right
now. And what we see in our BFA car data
is still this resilience of the US
consumer and the importance of the
consumer. We we see generally speaking
in terms of that leading what we what we
look at from a labor market perspective.
We usually see consumption lead labor,
not the other way around. So the last
time they put out forecasts which was
September, they conceded the outlook
hadn't really changed but the risks
around the outlook had let's cut risk
management. When they get together in
December, the middle of December and
they have to put out new forecasts. Are
they going to say the same thing again?
The outlook hasn't really changed.
>> Well, I think John, it's really about
this balance of risk assessment. And
what changed in September and why they
why they penciled in this additional cut
in at the at the December meeting is
because they were viewing this risk more
to the downside on the labor market and
we're thinking that that would drive
more of a downside shift in inflation.
But if we look at some of the inflation
data right now uh we're still seeing a
lot of strength in services inflation
that tends to be more of the cyclical
component of the inflation basket. And
then again, we are also in importantly
this absence of data from from the Fed.
Probably one of the first data points
that we're going to get out once once
the government reopens is is the
September labor report. And in our view,
that's going to be above consensus
expectations. Why aren't wages
increasing more then if this is the
demand picture that you're talking
about?
>> Well, while we are certainly seeing this
cooling in hiring, uh we we're not
seeing companies turn to be outright
firing folks. And so the reason why
we're not seeing this uptick in wages is
largely because we're seeing this shift
from a supply perspective. AI may be one
factor that's slowing uh the growth of
employment overall, but we're not seeing
this turn the other way around uh in
terms of a net net firing right now.
>> If the Fed does cut rates, does that
make you uh less likely to go into
duration? I mean, how much does that
affect the longer term inflation
backdrop? Yes, and this is exactly the
question that we're asking ourselves
right right now, Lisa, is how to think
about December and the the path for the
Fed near-term versus what some of these
risks are for Fed more medium, longer
term. We understand Pal's reaction
function pretty clearly. We have a a a
nice indicator from a lot of the Fed
speakers right now in terms of how
they're thinking about this balance, but
we worry about a new Fed chair that's
going to be thinking about the balance
of risks differently. um namely not not
considering 3% inflation to be
meaningfully above target. We're hearing
some of those comments from Myron and
and Bowman right now that 3% is okay or
discounting that 3% inflation rate and a
new Fed chair may be more concerned
about the slowdown that we're seeing in
in hiring which we think is more uh is
more supply driven. They may be
overweing from a demand perspective.
>> Why isn't the current Fed also tacitly
saying that 3% inflation is fine?
because essentially that's where it's
been for quite a while and it's been
above that 2% level for more than five
years. So at a certain point maybe
they're saying they're still going to
get down to the 2% target, but at what
point are they going to say it will get
down maybe in 2073? And this is a big
issue for the fixed income market
because if you look at what the market's
pricing for inflation in the medium
longer term, they're giving the Fed full
credibility on this. You look at where a
10-year breaks are priced considering
that 30 40 basis point differential
between CPI and PCE. the the market's
giving the Fed full credibility on this
2% target. And if you do have a Fed
that's getting more comfortable with 3%
inflation, cutting alongside that, we
see more uh upside to to being long
inflation. We like that at the 10-year
part of the curve.
>> It's kind of strange how well anchored
market based inflation expectations have
been. How credible this pursuit of 2%
seems to be when it's anything but based
on reality, how the data's come in and
how the Fed's behaved over the last few
years.
>> It's something that I check almost every
single day. Honestly, the 5year 5year
break even rates and the 10-year break
even rates and I've just been looking at
where is the breakout going to come. It
just has not come and I wonder how much
people are looking at disinflationary
forces whether it's from AI and
accounting for that before accounting
for some of the inflationary aspects or
other things. I don't really have an
answer.
>> I've said this week would be super
snoozy with a caveat. I did say this in
the last hour as well that we might get
some economic data. So, let's talk about
the data. You said above consensus
expectations on payrolls once it's
released. What's above consensus right
now? What's good for the labor market?
>> A good number is just still steady job
creation that's modestly above break
even. And break even right now the
market thinks is probably, you know,
much much lower than what we had been
seeing previously. Call it around 50k or
so. Um, and a lot of that comes back to
what Lisa's point was related to the
supply balance that we have in the labor
market right now. The slowdown in
hiring. So any number that doesn't
indicate an uptick in the unemployment
rate I I I think is is pretty decent. So
6070s is it enough to keep the Fed on
the sidelines?
>> I think so. I think so, John. And again,
it's going to be this decision in the
absence of us likely getting any more
inflation data through the December
meeting. Uh we very likely had the last
CPI print that we're going to get until
the the December Fed the December Fed
meeting. CPI was slated to come out the
second day of of the of the December Fed
meeting. But inflation is not something
that they can actually calculate um
retroactively. They they do this survey
throughout the month and you know we're
still now part of the way through
November going to be
>> okay this is really important because
I'm not sure how many people are quite
aware of this. So you're suggesting that
even if the government reopens like
tomorrow we move along that they might
not have CPI like the December meeting.
>> They may not because often times when
it's the government's closed for a while
it takes them a while to actually uh get
back to a normal production schedule uh
in terms of publishing the data. So,
it's very likely that we won't get any
more inflation data through the December
meeting.
>> Megan, thank you. Megan Swiber of Bank
for America. Thank you very much. It's
been too long. We'll have you back soon,
I'm sure. No doubt. How long is it going
to take to get that economic data?
Because there's a lot of Fed officials
trying to put together policy and they
need it right now.
>> And how reliable will it be? Are we
looking at the right data? And I think
that this was what Mary Daly was talking
about also. Are we looking at the
typical metrics if everyone can't agree
exactly what they mean? And I think that
that needs to be an increasing part of
the discussion because even if we get
that data, does it create more clarity
about the path the path of this economy?
I don't know. Every time we get the
data, people just double down on their
opinions and explain why they think that
this absolutely supports that.
>> Confirm their prior. I mean, there's
nothing too new about that, is there?
Well, you know, they become married to a
view.
>> Yeah. But it feels more desperate right
now because the view is less clear.
>> We said a few times cherry-picking
season in both the economics profession
and in equities as well. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 positive by 0.9% with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us here is
Yahihira. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. [music] A Paris court is
deciding whether to release former
French President Nicolas Sarosi from
prison. The appeal comes less than 3
weeks after he began serving a 5-year
sentence [music] for conspiring to use
campaign funds from Libya. Sarosi spoke
in court this morning, reportedly saying
his [music] life in prison was very hard
and once again proclaiming his
innocence. Meanwhile, BBC Director
General Tim Davyy and News Chief Deborah
Turnis resigned amid allegations the
broadcaster misled viewers by editing
Donald Trump's [music] January 6, 2021
remarks in a documentary. Speaking after
she stepped down, Turnis said mistakes
are made, but the BBC's journalists are
hardworking people who strive for
impartiality.
And a new court order says the Trump
administration must fully fund November
food aid benefits for [music] lowincome
Americans. A US appeals court chose not
to block a judge's order requiring the
release of full SNAP payments. The Trump
administration [music]
wants to continue making only partial
payments during the shutdown, arguing it
doesn't have enough funds. That's your
Bloomberg. John [music]
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara in the next hour. Up next on
the program, the shutdowns economic
strain.
>> Thanksgiving time is one of the hottest
times of the year for the economy. It's,
you know, Black Friday and all that kind
of stuff. And if people are traveling at
that moment, then we really could be
looking at a negative quarter for the
fourth quarter. That conversation up
next with Lindsay Preza of Stifle from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Just one weekend of travel chaos,
[music] enough to push the Senate closer
to ending the government shutdown and
helping to unlock these gains here this
morning. Up by 0.9% on the S&P and the
NASDAQ up by 1.5 on the Russell. Small
caps up by 1.2 following the first
backto-back weekly losses for [music]
the small caps since April. In the bond
market, twos, tens, and 30s yield your
tire across the curve by something like
3 to four basis points. 10's up by close
to four to 413. Twos at 359. A lot could
change between now and the Fed's next
meeting on December 10th, a month away.
Andrew Honhorse of City putting this out
that the Fed will likely have three
additional jobs reports in hand by the
time they meet a month from now.
>> Yeah, looking forward to having that
open and some of the data. They might
have the labor market reports, but as we
were just talking about with Megan, that
we might not have the CPI report. So,
how much can they actually [music] wait
what we get from the labor market? I am
curious about whether the fact that
holiday shopping is not going to get
disrupted [music]
by by uh the government shutdown is
really giving people a boost to the
overall economy and we're seeing that
[music] this morning.
>> You know, we love to spend in this
country, Brema,
>> never get between shopping.
>> Yeah. Never get between an American and
their credit card.
>> Exactly. Few weeks away, Thanksgiving
just around [music] the corner. Equity
futures then doing better on the S&P 500
higher by 0.9%. The Fed debate
continues. Special programming 8:30
Eastern time about 41 minutes away.
We'll catch up with the San San San
Francisco Fed President Mary Dailyaly at
8:30 Eastern time. [music] That
conversation just around the corner.
Unless this morning, the shutdown's
economic strain.
>> Thanksgiving time is one of the hottest
times of the year for the economy. It's,
you know, Black Friday and all that kind
of stuff. And if people aren't traveling
at that moment, then we really could be
looking at a negative quarter for the
fourth quarter. I'm [music] comfortable
with 2% inflation. Inflation is like the
Queen Mary, my friend Alan Greenspan
used to say. And so when you go from the
almost 4% that we had in January [music]
down to the mid-2s, then that's a
trajectory that usually has momentum.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
shutdown adding to economic uncertainty
as the White House estimates losses of
$15 billion per week. Lindsey Pixar of
Stifel writing investors will be
listening closely to any indications of
a growing divide among policy opinions,
the threshold for additional rate cuts
and broader expectations for policy
going forward. Lindsay joins us now for
more. Lindsay, welcome back. What is the
strongest argument right now for this
Fed to sit out the December rate cut
decision?
Well, I think right now when we look at
the broader pace of economic activity
trending near 3% coupled with inflation
still elevated well above the Fed's 2%
target, I I think it's going to be
difficult to justify any further policy
easing and really solidify the need for
the Fed to take a pause, sit on the
sideline, allow further data to evolve,
and give the Fed a better sense of where
we're headed going forward. But right
now, not only is that justification not
there, but the sense of urgency is far
from there as well.
>> Lindsay, when we've been looking at
other data points to try to uh backfill
what we haven't been getting from the
government, everyone seems to focus on
the labor market. What metrics are you
watching for inflation? On the other
side of things,
>> I think one of the key metrics that
we're focused on right now is inflation
expectations. Despite the fact that the
Fed continues to vocalize a desire to
get back to 2%, as we've seen over the
past several years, they failed to take
the needed steps to ensure a return to
price stability. And the market is
seeing that when we look at the latest
inflation expectation calculations
near-term still up near 5%, but longer
term, so we're talking 5 years and out,
still up near 4%. So there is a lot of
concern that despite where the Fed is
right now, further inflationary
pressures may be coming down the
pipeline.
>> Lindsay, you're talking about, I
believe, the University of Michigan
sentiment survey because when I look at
say break even rates, it's still around
the 2.2% over the next 5 to 10 years. So
when you take a look at the marketbased
inflation expectations, they haven't
risen. How do you explain that that sort
of a discrepancy?
Well, I think right now it goes back to
the telltale story that we're feeling
more inflation from a consumer
standpoint than maybe the market
calculations are are presenting that 2
and a halfish to 3% range. Consumers are
feeling 20% increases, 30% increases at
least over the past 5 years across a
number of key categories from
transportation, household energy to your
morning coffee. This has been
compounding pressure on the consumer.
And of course, as we know, inflation
expectations feed directly back in to
the realized inflation calculation. And
this is something that the Fed has
historically kept a very close eye on in
order to not allow inflation
expectations.
further underlying inflationary data.
This is one key data point to suggest
the Fed needs to take a further more
more direct focus on taming price
pressures in the marketplace.
>> Lindsay, the last time we had a big
moment with inflation was of course
coming out of the pandemic, but it was
easier for the Federal Reserve that
time. Even though they took their time,
it was certainly easier because the
labor market was so tight. What's
interesting about this moment, Lindsay,
is that they feel not great about
inflation, but they also feel pretty
lousy about the labor market as well.
And you see that across sentiment
surveys. And Lindsay, I'm curious why
you believe we're tracking so well with
GDP and yet attitudes about the labor
market are so lousy.
>> Well, I think when we look at some of
the labor market conditions, we have to
be careful not to put too much stock in
one data set or or one data point for
that matter. First off, topline job
creation has slowed marketkedly o over
the past couple of years. But this is
somewhat expected in an aged recovery,
not to mention an ongoing structural
shift with businesses increasingly
relying on technology and the adoption
of AI. So we no longer need 200 300,000
jobs to reach that full employment
level. Second, just because we see that
one data point, again, topline job
creation is slowing. Other metrics
suggest we're on more solid footing.
When we look at the unemployment rates,
still nearish 4%, when we look at wage
growth, still up at 4%. When we look at
jobless claims, still very rangebound,
as they have been for the past couple of
years. So, just as there's some
indications of cooling, there's vast
other indications that the labor market
is far more solid than some of these
more dire predictions. So Lindsay, just
to follow up because we've gone over
this ground a few times throughout
summer. Chairman Powell appears to have
shifted his view on the labor market and
the way he anchors his view around the
labor market. He took your view of
things at the start of summer. He
anchored his view of the labor market
around the unemployment rate and then
things changed through the summer and he
appeared to anchor his view around the
deceleration we'd seen in overall
payrolls. Where do you think we'll be by
the time we get to December?
>> Well, I think it was pretty clear. We
saw in this statement that the Fed
downgraded their assessment of the risks
on the employment side, but not
necessarily in terms of uh
forward-looking thinking, but his
justification for the September and
October rate cut. But Chair Paul
clarified during the press conference
saying that he does not expect any
further deterioration in labor market
conditions, suggesting that we may have
reached this point of stability, further
justifying then a position of policy on
the sideline.
>> Lindsay, thanks for the reaction. Thank
you very much. Lindy PX are there of
Steve for that's two guests back toback
that appear to think this Federal
Reserve should and will sit this out
over the next few meetings.
>> People are concerned about the fact that
inflation has remained higher than the
target for uh more than 5 years and
there is this dissonance right now
between how people feel about the
overall price increases they felt over
the past few years and the rate of
change the rate of increasing prices now
and that I think also is tying into
people's minds. I just wonder how you
explain that with the push back that
you're seeing from corporates uh in
terms of what consumers are willing or
not willing to pay with price increase
absorb absorption.
>> I will say this, many lessons coming out
of the pandemic. Many, but here's one.
When the consumer tells you they're not
feeling good about the labor market
andor the broader economy, take them
seriously because I'm not sure they were
taken seriously enough with regard to
the inflation story of a few years ago.
And I think this time around there is a
temptation to excuse this [music] away.
There's clearly a problem. They're
telling you there is one
>> and that's the reason why people are
looking at tertiary data to try to
[music] understand the whole story
>> whether it's the Fed's roles to fix it.
That's a different question altogether.
Coming up on the program, Greg Bowel of
BMP Parabar, Anisha Sherman of
Bernstein, San Francisco Fed President
Mary Dailyaly, plus Peter Spino of Wolf
Research. The third hour of Limbeex
surveillance up next.
>> The risk on trade has been very strong,
very long. Positioning is very crowded
and people have already priced in most
of the good news.
>> I don't think the bull market's over.
>> Onions have been rock solid.
>> At the end of the day, it's going to be
the earners that is going to drive this
market. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. From our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures bouncing back higher by close to
1% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ up by
1.5. A better start to a trading day as
the government takes a big step towards
ending a record [music] long shutdown in
the bond market. Bonds down, treasuries
lower, yields up across the curve by
three basis points. 10s at 41277
into [music] a week full of bond supply.
Lisa running you through the numbers.
3es, tens, and 30s coming throughout the
week. And watch this space on this
calendar right here because at some
point when the government reopens, we're
going to get a strong indication of just
when you'll get that delayed payroll
data. [music]
>> We believe that the September labor
market report was already drafted. So it
won't take that long for that to come
out. If we get the data and it does
confirm either strength or weakness, how
much do people suddenly get a new anchor
around the big question which is [music]
will the Fed cut in December? But more
broadly, what is the longerterm neutral
rate and how is the balance of risks
shaping [music] up on the FOMC?
>> Important conversation coming up 29
minutes from now. Fed President Mary
Dailyy checking in with us here at
Bloomberg Surveillance to break down
what [music] she's seeing in the labor
market and whether the 70s is a decent
way of describing this moment or for
that matter, is it the complete
opposite? Is it the 90s?
>> Is it a question of stagflationary
[music]
doom and a doom loop that you saw during
the 1970s or are we looking at something
that is a productivity boom on the backs
of a technological revolution and that
would be the 1990s albeit with some
excesses built in economic uh from a
stock market perspective. Nonetheless,
it changes how they respond [music] to
policy. And there really is a key
question of how do we even understand a
labor market that does seem to be really
softening amid [music]
GDP that's growing at a really healthy
rate. It has been the mystery for so
many people out there.
>> So many different [music] points of
tension right now that we're still
trying to reconcile. I don't think a
month's worth, two months, 3 months
worth of data is going to address that
problem. [music] Just how are we
tracking at 3% GDP with employment
growth this low? Just how are companies
doing this well with employment growth
this low? And for how much longer can
that story persist? And I've been asking
that now for several months. And maybe
it goes on well into 2026.
>> This is the reason why you are not
hearing Fed share J. Powell or perhaps
this may be the reason why you're not
hearing Fed share J. Powell [music] say
this is data dependent Fed. You didn't
hear that last time. Of course, we're
not getting data. But how are you
dependent on data that everyone would
interpret slightly differently? [music]
This is the key question. What is your
framework? And I think that goes to the
stock market, too. This question of are
we in a bubble? Are we not in a bubble?
Do [music] you see this as a huge
technological shift or do you see this
as inflated valuations that are uh
inflating everything and [music]
destined to maybe get deflated a bit?
>> We've certainly seen labor decoupled
from the broader economy. I'm not sure
how much longer that can persist, but
it's [music] been going on for a while.
But the S&P were bouncing back by 0.9%
for the broader equity market. Better
than good so far this morning. Coming up
this morning, over the next [music]
hour, we'll catch up with great battle
of BMP Parabar with stocks rising to
begin the trading week. the San
Francisco Fed president Mary Daly on a
divided central bank and Peter Spino of
Wolf Research with earnings from Disney
and Paramount Sky Dance on deck. We
begin this hour with stocks rising as
the possible end of the government
shutdown opens the door to resuming the
release of official economic data. Greg
Battle of BMP Parabar writing, "The Fed
in our view remains on course to
continue the cutting cycle at the
December meeting. We think this sets the
stage for higher equities but also
higher volatility." Greg joins us now
for more. Greg, good morning. Good
morning.
>> If you've been tracking the program over
the last 30 minutes, we've had
backto-back guests saying the Fed will
sit this out in December. Why do you
think they'll be cutting interest rates?
>> Well, obviously the macro data is not
only delayed, but it's going to be messy
once we get it. We've obviously had one
cut for this cycle, and I think that if
we view those as insurance cuts, the Fed
trying to act preemptively for what may
happen in terms of the labor market,
then I think there's little reason to
think that they won't act again in
December. Is there more space to deliver
another riskmanagement insurance rate
cut with inflation closer to three than
it is to two?
>> I think it feels like it. I think the
question is which part of their dual
mandate do they focus on? And if people
are worried about cracks emerging in the
labor market, we know these things can
get nonlinear very quickly. That maybe
is the part of the mandate that they'll
be more focused on.
>> John mentioned some of the other people
who are on the show talking about the
Fed sitting this out and they drew
comparisons that sounded somewhat more
similar to the 1970s than the 1990s. You
say this is a market regime that is much
more similar to the late 1990s. Why do
you say that?
>> Well, as an equity market person, I
think what we have going on there
clearly looks more similar to the '9s
than the '7s, at least at least at this
point. And with the macro data, such a a
mess, maybe the best thing to do is to
focus on the micro data. We've just seen
the bulk of Q3 earning season. And I
think Q3 earnings were undoubtedly good.
You know, across the large cap tech
space, we saw strong earnings that
resulted in analysts upgrading their
2026 numbers. If we look further down
the market cap spectrum away from just
that narrow mega cap tech, a lot of the
industrial cyclicals posted pretty good
earnings as well.
>> Is this just a story though of the AI
buildout? Is this a story where you have
a sort of technological shift overlaid
on an otherwise weakening economy? It
could potentially be, but if that
technological shift is the one of the
biggest pieces of the economy and the
biggest piece of the equity market and
it remains on course for the at least
the medium term, the next year or so,
then that can continue to drive the
market higher.
>> Issue that we've got, Greg, is this is
not just a technological shift per se.
It's a corporate strategy shift. The way
these companies are being run is
changing as well from asset light to
asset heavy. What does that mean for how
you value them? I think it creates more
uncertainty and I think that is really
at the core of our view that we think we
could see a higher market but higher
volatility. The idea of these super
cashrich companies you know having these
incrementally higher capex spends that
eventually have to become debt funded
certainly increases the risks but that
kind of increase in leverage that
arguably more efficient balance sheet
can also drive the market higher.
>> Are we beginning that debt cycle now and
how are you explaining that to investors
about how they should navigate this
moment? Yeah, I mean it certainly feels
like we are moving on to the next stage
of the cycle, but the question people
have is is that the late stage? Is that
the last stage of the cycle? And it
doesn't feel like it. It still seems
that we're in this environment where
we're going to get really strong
earnings growth and we're seeing
upgrades to those earnings forecasts,
but an increase in leverage, an increase
in debt, we think uh manifests in
equities as an increase in volatility.
>> So, it could be a bubble, but ride the
bubble because you've got a lot of gains
before it pops. Is that right?
>> Yeah, exactly. So, we're looking back at
things like the late '9s, and one of the
lessons from the late '90s was if you
got really bearish in something like
1998, that was a very painful lesson.
And if we think back to 1998, it was the
kind of mini Fed cutting cycle, which
was the precursor to the strongest and
most volatile period of returns from 98
into 99.
>> So, wouldn't that be an argument that it
would be a liability potentially and
destabilizing for the Fed to cut rates
now to just fuel a bubble that is
developing and that a lot of people seem
very worried about? It could be and
that's the challenge for the Fed.
There's a ton of crosswinds and inflated
equity market versus a weakening labor
market. And the question is which do
they choose to solve for? And our view
is that for US equities, if we do have
this very strong earnings outlook and
this AI capex cycle plowing on and the
Fed do choose to solve for the labor
market and cut rates, that almost
creates one of the most bullish and
volatile scenarios for equity.
>> What's your credit team saying about
this? Are they saying the credit market
will accommodate this debt cycle, this
leverage cycle? Yeah, I I mean it's
something that's obviously emerging for
them with corporates that have
incredibly strong balance sheets. So I
think it's a story that the credit team
are going to have to get to grips with
and it's going to be something that
changes their market and is a kind of
evolution for
>> are they suggesting the credit market's
wide open for it?
>> So at the moment the credit market seems
in a place where spreads are very very
tight and there was huge demand for this
issuance. So I think that that for them
and for us it's more a question of kind
of watching that stage of the cycle
start to emerge and see where we are
there.
>> We've seen the early signs of it Lisa at
least over the last few weeks. Meta,
Oracle, Alphabet with a monster one last
week as well.
>> I'm struck by something that Bob Michael
of JP Morgan Asset Management said. He
said there is so much cash sloshing
around right now and there is so much
money looking for income and you have to
wonder when there's a lot of cash
looking for a product, Wall Street will
create it for them. So at a certain
point, how much is the fact that there
is a lot of cash in the system looking
for some income going to fuel behavior
just like this? To your point, John,
earlier rewarding the behavior that so
many companies seem to be engaging in
with releveraging.
>> I think you kind of alluded to this, but
doesn't that make the equity story
slightly more compelling, even more
compelling?
>> I think so. Absolutely. So that's where
you know when we talk about bubbles and
cycles the irony is if you think we're
in a bubble the right trade might be
that we're at that expansionary trade of
the bubble where risks do become larger
leverage becomes greater but that's
often where some of the best returns
albeit with some of the highest risk
occurs.
>> How would you characterize the pull back
of the last week then if we can call it
that a few percentage points.
>> Yeah I mean it's one of those things
where going into this we think things
got very overextended. So we saw Bitcoin
rally, gold rally, the most shorted
names rally, NASDAQ rally, and we saw an
explosion in call option volumes. So it
felt like things were getting stretched
and I've described it as a as a healthy
correction um where we've seen all of
those assets kind of come back in uh
concert and we've seen some of the
equity positioning metrics that we uh
that we track kind of wash out and as I
said this has come as a against the
backdrop where corporate earnings have
been very strong. So I don't think this
is really a fundamentally led uh
correction and obviously we've had the
backdrop of the government shutdown and
other noise in the background that's
maybe contributed to that but bigger
picture it seems to be more of a
technical wash out versus fundamentals
that seem stronger.
>> Just to be clear the correction that
you're talking about is less than 3%
last week. Exactly. So this is not
exactly a correction but I just want to
make that very clear. I want to point
out though that right now you're talking
about all the reasons why you're getting
more and more bullish. What would you
see that would make you pause that would
think maybe this is not the story that I
thought that it was?
>> The key driver of the bull market has
been this boom in AIdriven capex and if
something happens to put the brakes on
that I think that could be something
that could end up terminal for the bull
market. Um but we don't see any signs of
that happening in the short term.
>> Greg this was thoughtful. It's good to
see you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you sir. Greg Battle there of Bmp
Parabar. Just as the equity market might
have started to push back, debt market
opens its doors and says welcome and
they issue a ton of debt.
>> And guess what? Everyone seems happy.
The only people who don't, people will
say it's just you guys who are nervous
nellies who are raising concerns about
this. At a certain point, when you have
a lot of cash in the system, it is
looking for some money back. And guess
what? Wall Street will find ways to give
that to them at least in the short term.
Futures out this morning by 0.9% demand
performance on big tech on the NASDAQ
100 high by close to 1.5%. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Yhara for more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant says President Trump's
suggestion of a tariff dividend could
come via the tax [music] cuts in his
signature economic policy bill. Bessant
made the statement when asked about
Trump's social media [music] post where
the president said each American would
receive a dividend of at least $2,000
from the money tariffs are [music]
generating. Meanwhile, Nvidia CEO Jensen
Wang says he's asked TSMC for more chip
supplies to keep up with booming AI
demand. Speaking at a TSMC event in
Taiwan, Wang says [music]
Nvidia's AI memory chip suppliers have
scaled up capacity to support the
company. TSMCCO [music]
confirmed Wang's request, saying the
chipmaker expects record sales every
year. Meanwhile, Tyson Food shares are
rising 3.6% [music]
in the pre-market. The nation's largest
meat packer said it expects results for
2026 to be little [music] change despite
record high prices for beef. Tyson's
beef profits have been under pressure
from a severe cattle shortage that's
driven up prices [music] and constrained
volumes. Higher chicken demand has been
able to offset some of those losses. Dr.
Bloomberg Reef [music] John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next, the
morning calls plus Anisha Sherman of
Bernstein. Warning of cautious guidance
ahead for retailers. [music] That
conversation up next live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
Both businesses and consumers are wary
about the economy going forward. Um
businesses are deciding that they're
going to continue to just wait and see
what happens regarding tariffs.
Meanwhile, consumers [music]
um you know, we saw a big drop in
consumer confidence earlier this year.
It's kind [music] of stabilized and
moving backward uh moving back and
forward over the last few months, but
it's still much lower than it was
pre-tariff [music] announcements.
>> It's close to rock bottom. That was Dana
Peterson of the Conference Board.
Consumer sentiment not great, but this
market does better as we open the door
to ending the government shutdown and
potentially the floodgates for economic
data in the months to come. X&P 500
futures up by 0.9% [music] on the NASDAQ
up by 1.4 on the Russell up by 1.25.
That's the equity setup. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, City
[music] raising its price target on
Nvidia to 220, expecting a B and a raise
in its next earnings report. That stock
is up by 3%. And your second call from
Steve raising its price target on higher
to 158, forecasting higher unit growth.
And finally, JP Morgan cutting its price
target on target to 100, expecting a
mixed earnings report next week. That
earnings report next Wednesday. [music]
Target this morning positive by 0.2%.
Let's stick with the consumer sentiment
sinking to the near the lowest on record
as the government shutdown and high
prices weigh [music] on the economy.
Joining us now to discuss is Lindsay
Dutch of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Lindsay, just tell us where the consumer
is based on what you're hearing from
fast casual restaurants and what we're
seeing from some of the retailers
elsewhere.
>> Yes, thanks for having me. You're right.
The sentiment indicator is low, but
there are some positive signs coming
from other sources.
CNBC NRF Retail Monitor came out today
with positive momentum in October
heading into the pivotal holiday season.
And when I think about some of the
hardlines retailers that I cover, there
is some positive commentary coming from
those companies, A Tractor Supply, a
Somni Group, basically saying demand is
resilient to improving and that's really
boosted mostly by a higher income
consumer, but those consumers are still
very selective and very value focused
heading into the holiday season.
>> Lindsay, you talked about the
high-income consumer. What explains the
divide between something like the travel
stocks which seem to be flying excuse
the pun doing very very well and what
we're seeing elsewhere some of the worst
performers this year the likes of Lulu
the likes of Deckers
>> yeah I think some of the retailers you
know that the stock movement I is in a
reaction to you know profit wi-i which
is reflecting tariff costs in this back
half of the year it's also can be
reflecting you know outlooks and a lot
of the retailers are issuing you know
remaining very concern conservative on
their outlooks. I cover Elf Beauty. They
reported last week a very low outlook
for the year, you know, and the stocks
do react to that, you know, a lack of
confidence that this back half of the
year, you know, could be solid.
>> Lindsy Dutch of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Lindsay, thank you. Appreciate it. Nisha
Sherman of of Bernstein writing the
following. Going into third quarter
earnings, off-pric retail is holding up.
However, we see a risk of cautious
fourth quarter guides accounting for
macro headwinds. Anisha joins us now for
more. Anisha, let's go straight to the
calendar. So, next Wednesday, we should
hear from Target. The day after, I
believe we hear from Walmart. What are
you and the team expected to see
>> across retail? As your correspondent
just said, we are seeing some
improvement in October. And so, you
know, September, Octo August and
September were weak. October looks a
little bit better. However, I think the
as as you put the quote up, I'm worried
about Q4 guides. We had a very strong Q4
last year. The consumer was resilient.
We had strong data up and down the
spectrum all the way up from Lululemon
down to the hard value retailers and
they're now going to be anniversarying
those numbers with a much weaker
consumer sentiment dropping now for four
months in a row especially for middle
inome consumers and pulling down towards
value. So my concern will be very
cautious guidance from those management
teams in a year where there's a lot of
uncertainty and consumer sentiment
doesn't look great. Anisha, when you do
your channel checks, how much are a lot
of retailers going for volume, trying to
squeeze their margins or not raise
prices too much and try to attract the
greatest number of people into uh their
stores versus try to pass along some of
those price increases and make up the
difference on high margin items.
>> That's a great question. Going for
volume has not been a winning strategy
for retail. All it does is lead to a
price war and a race to the bottom. And
so a and and this year retailers are
trying to do the the opposite. They are
trying to find ways to pass on some
pricing. They've been burdened by tariff
costs. So they are trying to find ways
to pass on pricing on products that are
working. They're not doing it peanut
buttering a price increase across
everything. They're doing it on select
items, items that are selling well, new
product launches that are doing really
successfully, um or items that appeal to
higherend consumers who are less um who
are more inelastic on demand and can
absorb some of those price increases. So
they are trying to secure or salvage
some of the margin that they've lost
from tariffs. They're not trying to race
to the bottom and cut prices on volume.
Though if we get a really weak holiday
season, we could end up in that
situation in January. And so that's part
of the concern around holiday guidance.
>> How much are you seeing a real kind of
buy for some of the lower income or the
discount stores in particular given the
fact that they don't have the same kind
of flexibility to raise prices on key
items to pad their margins?
They are doing some price raises. So the
offpricers, for example, are raising
prices on select items. You know,
they're they're maintaining those price
value gaps. And I think what protects
them is they've seen full price retail
take pricing up significantly. High
single digit to low double digit across
the apparel, footwear, and accessories
sector. That's been the typical price
increase for the last four or five
months. So they now see room to catch up
a little bit. They're not going to
exceed that level of price increase, but
they're going to maintain those gaps or
maybe even keep those gaps a little bit
wider, but still take some increases.
So, they are doing it even at lower
price points.
>> Lacy, another word I hate the most when
it comes to retail earnings.
>> What's that?
>> Choiceful.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Choiceful. It implies they have choices.
>> Well, it also is a really nice way of
saying picky because they have to be
picky because they have a limited budget
and that's why they're going out and
trying to make their dollar go the
furthest constrained by their budget.
Why do we say choiceful?
>> Because it sounds nice. It's like
they're full of choices. Yay, democracy.
>> But they're not. Anisha, I have a
problem with that word. Do you see a
choiceful consumer or one that's
constrained? Constrained by tighter
budgets.
>> I completely agree with you. I think
choiceful and constrained are two very
different things. You know, you could
see a high-income consumer being
choiceful in the sense that there's a
lot of new innovation and they're being
choosy about what they want. We're not
seeing that. We're seeing a constrained
consumer now. We're seeing people that
are trading down because they have to
and they're making difficult choices,
cutting back on holiday spending, not
because they're being particularly
choosy or picky, but just because
they're constrained. Um, and that and
that continues to be what pushes
consumers down to those value retailers.
So, I think it will be positive for the
value retailers, but everybody is going
to see um a tougher consumer making more
difficult choices this holiday.
>> We saw so much of that play out with
Walmart. Quarter after quarter, they
talk about trade down. Anisha, is that
story largely played out?
I think there's more to it. I mean, they
are trying to attract a higher income
consumer base particularly through the
Walmart Plus membership and so on and
then keep that consumer sticky uh sticky
spend spending on across the the
portfolio. So, they are they are
continuing to do that. I think they will
continue to be able to do it um because
they continue to have better assortments
as well and better price points because
of their size. So, I I think that trend
continues and it comes out of maybe more
middle- inome retailers or smaller
retailers that maybe can't keep up with
those assortments and price points.
Anisha, to that point, is Walmart still
the bellweather for the US economy and
the US consumer, particularly on the
lower end, or do you have to look
elsewhere? Are there other retailers
that are better bellweathers?
That's a great question. It is the
bellweather in general across retail um
across the consumer, but when you're
talking about lowincome consumers
specifically, it used to be very much
so. And now there are other retailers
that are more representative. If you
look at the off-pric retailers, the
dollar retailers, some of the hard value
retailers, they will probably tell you
more about the lower-inccome consumer
than Walmart necessarily will anymore.
Um, Walmart has become more broad-based
and pulling more from high-income
cohorts. So, it's not a very lowinccome
indicator anymore.
>> Anisha, just heading into the holiday
season, one thing that we've been
focused on is how much holiday hiring
there actually has been. And there have
been signs that some of these retailers
are not hiring as much to fill their
stores as they have in the past. What
are you getting the sense of in terms of
that particular hiring spree?
>> They are being very careful. They are
trying to manage their P&Ls. They're
trying to manage their labor costs. This
is not a holiday season where they're
going all out. So, yes, uh they are
they're being very careful tightening
the belt, not just on hiring, but even
on kind of marketing into the holiday,
um visual merchandising, everything is
managed very tightly because they are
expecting the consumer to come in with a
tighter wallet. And so they are
responding in in in kind and trying not
to make the compares too difficult
year-over-year versus a very strong
holiday period that we had last year.
>> Alicia, one final question before you
go. Two of the worst performing names on
the S&P 500. I know you've got calls on
both, Lulu and Decas. Both down around
50 to 60%. Dreadful year for the stocks
into 26. What's your message to anyone
tempted to step in, pick up the pieces
and buy these names?
>> Shortterm, I wouldn't. I have a neutral
on Lulu and I have a sell on Deckers. Um
I think they've both had self-inflicted
mistakes that have driven this terrible
performance through the year and numbers
have come down through the year. I think
medium-term I'm more optimistic on
Lululemon once they because they have
had such a tough year. Um on Deckers I
I'm inherently negative. I mean I think
they are they are not prepared enough to
pivot into other areas. They're very
focused on running which is a super
competitive sector and I haven't seen
indications that management are thinking
more long term.
>> Anisha, thank you. It's always good to
see you. Make sure on the call you
start, you know, criticizing some of
these CEOs about the word choiceful and
all that kind of thing. Anisha, thank
you very much. An Alicia Sherman of
Bernstein doesn't need me to tell her
what to say. Of course, this is your
lobbying call. You're like, please
represent.
>> I should dial in on a media call. Let me
just tell you.
>> Yeah, I just hate that word.
>> I know it does does imply it's
>> ridiculously misleading. It's a very
positive spin on an otherwise cyclical
call on exactly where we are and the
power of the consumer.
>> I'll take a step back. Coming up on the
program, San Francisco Fed President
Mary Daddy. I'll take a step in what a
divided central bank means for interest
rates. Plus, Danny's going to join us
with your morning movers. Core Weave, a
name that Lisa's looking at this morning
as well. Shares bouncing back after last
week's doubledigit plunge. That name is
up by 5%. That conversation just around
the corner.
60 minutes out from the open and bal
equity futures shaping up as follows. A
bounce back in this market off the back
of weekend developments in Washington DC
taking a significant step towards ending
[music] a record-l long government
shutdown. on the S&P high by 1% on the
NASDAQ up by 1.5 with some single names.
Your stock movers this morning. Here's
Danny with more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, good morning, John. You're seeing
core weave after shares falling 22% last
week and the whole fear of the AI trade.
Has it gone too far? That's starting to
reverse thanks to the fact that one,
there's a more positive sentiment today
and two core will be reporting earnings
after the bell tomorrow. So, those
shares up uh today rather. So those
shares up 5.2% in anticipation of that.
We also have some deal news that
developed over the weekend. The bidding
war between Fizer and Nova Nordis over
Metsera. They are developing an obesity
pill. You had Fizer match Novo Nordis'
bid price for it. And then regulators
came out voicing some uncertainty about
what it would look like if Nova Nordis
bought Metser. All of that meant that
Novo bowed out of the race. And it does
mean that the bidding war has ended. So,
you're seeing Metsa shares fall about
15% in today's trade. Finally, we got a
little bit of earnings today. 90% of
companies in the S&P 500 [music] have
already reported, but Instacart reported
earnings this morning. A outlook that at
the high end exceeded expectations. They
also talked about the fact that they had
a lot of growth coming in and a lot of
positivity from different partnerships.
They have for example, saying that all
of that outweighed any of the issues
with SNAP benefits being taken away
because of the government [music]
shutdown. So those shares up 7.6%. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in
about 29 minutes time alongside Matt
Miller for Bloomberg Open interest
[music] at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time. Let's
turn to the Federal Reserve. Policy
makers remaining divided ahead of the
December meeting. The [music] San
Francisco Fed President Mary Dailyaly
writing in a blog this morning. We must
ask ourselves, are we in the 1970s or
the 1990s? We can't ignore the 70s or
the post-pandemic inflation runup, but
we can't ignore the rest of history
either. The Fed President Mary Dailyaly
joins us now for more. President Daly,
welcome back to the program. Always good
to see you. Let's just start with that
question that you ask yourself. What's
guiding your assessment of where we are?
>> So, I'm looking at both inflation and
productivity. And if you look at
inflation, you're seeing that it's been
pretty contained so far in the goods
prices, which have been directly
tariffed. And then you look at the other
parts of inflation, you just don't see
much of a a runup. So, that's good news.
and inflation expectations, what people
expect, remain very well anchored. Look
at productivity and you see that
productivity is rising, GDP growth is
rising while the labor market is
slowing. So that tells me there's a
little bit of that boost coming from
firms looking to do more with less, but
that's also causing a slowdown in the
labor market. So the 50 basis point
adjustment we've made has helped support
the labor market, but still keeps policy
restrictive so that we can put downward
pressure on inflation.
President Daly, what are you looking at
to determine whether it's the 1970s or
the 1990s?
>> Well, I'm going to really look at things
that improve productivity to think about
the '9s. And it's more than just the
stock market valuations for AI
companies. It really is about the
companies out there who might be using
AI and then asking them, going directly
to them and asking them, what's it doing
for your bottom line and how are you
using it? And what we're hearing are
pretty encouraging but very early signs.
They see how it can help their bottom
line, how it can improve their
productivity, even how they can be
supportive of their workers, give them
more interesting work, take the less
interesting work away. But they all tell
us it's early days, so more to come on
that. And then on the inflation part,
are we in the 1970s? Really asking
employers and firms, what are you doing
with prices? Are you thinking about
raising your prices? How are you going
to think about losing volumes if you do
so in a slowing economy, especially for
consumers, you know, from the 50th
percentile down? And putting those two
things together, I think we'll get a lot
of clarity about which direction we're
heading. And with policy, you know, been
slightly adjusted, we are in a good
place to continue to evaluate the
information before we make any
decisions. We can't know Xanti before
the data come out and before we get that
information really what we're facing. We
just have to have an open mind about
which one it could be and maybe other
periods of history I didn't even
mention.
>> President Daly, how different would the
neutral rate be if it were say more like
the 1970s or more like the 1990s? Just
how different would Fed policy be in
response to one or the other paradigm?
>> Well, you know, it there's many nuanced
ways it could affect the neutral rate,
but I can back up from that and just ask
what were the policy remedies. If you
think we're about to have an inflation
runup, then we obviously would have to
hold policy tighter for longer because
we wouldn't want that to occur. You
know, honestly, Americans have endured,
you know, already too much inflation and
we really need to get that back down to
2% to restore price stability as we've
committed to. On the other side, if it's
productivity, you would start seeing the
economy able to run a little bit longer.
Maybe if you go back to the debates of
the 90s, you know, we we saw the labor
market slow workers were insecure, but
the labor market had unemployment that
was fairly low and many at the time were
worried that could spur inflation. But
Greenspan, chairman Greenspan held on
with his colleagues. They didn't raise
rates and what you saw was, you know,
the '9s, which was a booming time, and
we ended around target inflation and we
had a productivity boom. So you're
trying to balance those two things
together. And it means not looking just
at headline information, but getting
below that information, talking to
firms, talking to consumers, talking to
workers, really on the ground work like
we do at the reserve banks and other
places. You know, the Fed is built to do
this on the ground work as well as look
at the published data.
>> President Daily, reading the blog post
this morning, it seems like you're
leaning more toward the 1990s side of
things than the 1970s. Is that right?
Well, you know, right now, you know, I'm
in the west in I have the nine states in
the western United States, and it's not
just Silicon Valley that seems
interested in AI. No matter who we talk
to, whether they're, you know, small
businesses, medium or large businesses,
manufacturing,
uh, tourism, etc., they're using AI in a
way that they say is going to improve
their productivity, and they're already
seeing parts of it. So, when I see that,
I'm like, okay, we need to think about
that. What really will spur this as an
ongoing thing is if they start to change
their business processes. So that's what
I'm looking at. Now that means but I but
I guess a different way to say that is
we cannot take our eyes off inflation.
Again, Americans have endured high
inflation too long. That's our mandate.
So while I'm looking for productivity
gains and seeing if they're going to
continue, I'm also keeping my eye
completely focused on inflation to make
sure that it doesn't pick up in a way
that would suggest we need to do more or
we need to hold longer. President Eddie,
how would you respond to the criticism
that the Federal Reserve as an
institution has taken its eye off
inflation? That inflation is closer to
three than it is to two, and the Fed's
been cutting interest rates.
>> You know, I don't think that if you
unpack the inflation data, you really
see signs of that. It's true that
headline inflation is printing at that
level, but you have to take apart that
inflation and ask how much of it is the
effect of tariffs passing through the
goods prices that we expect to be a
one-time price level adjustment and not
a consistent runup in inflation. And if
you unpack the data, what you see is you
don't see inflation running up in
services or housing. And importantly,
you don't see it spreading into
inflation expectations that would be the
thing that would continue to run up
inflation going forward. We also see a
labor market that's softening and wage
growth that is moderating. So, you're
really not going to see a lot of
pressure coming on the cost side of
labor. So, I put those things together
and we don't want to make the mistake of
holding on too long for rates only to
find out we injure the economy.
>> President Denny, can we just pick up on
the cost of labor? I think this is
really important right now. Clearly, and
it's hard to dispute this, it's in the
data. We've had a massive step down in
payrolls growth. What's behind that is a
little bit more confusing. Is it demand?
Is it cyclical? Is it structural? Is it
something else like immigration? What's
your tell right now? What can you point
to that helps tell you it's one thing
over the other?
>> Yes. You you you look at prices in this
in this case the price of labor is
wages. If it was simply a a supply and
firms were still scrambling to find
workers to fill what was jobs that were
supported by the the previous
immigrants, you would find wages going
up as they bid for workers to try to
fill those jobs. But that's actually not
what you see. You see wage growth
slowing even in sectors where
immigration played a larger role. And so
that to me tells tell says it's a demand
shock, a negative demand shock along
with just a a coincidental
uh negative supply shock. So you lost
workers but you lost jobs at the same
time or you had job growth slowing. And
what we're seeing now is a is does that
continue to net out? Right? right? What
if the supply of workers doesn't keep
going down, but the demand for workers
does? Well, then we'd end up with a rise
in unemployment. So, have to keep
squarely focused on those types of
things. We're definitely in a low
firing, low uh hiring period and
interrogating that labor market,
continuing to watch the information, see
what firms do next. That's going to be
the important part.
>> And it's something that a lot of people
have said really is the case shape. the
idea that particularly on the lower end
you have not seen wages keep pace with
the rest of the income spheres. I just
wonder though how much we are seeing a
massive amount of inflation and asset
prices and how that feeds into what
you're looking at especially at a time
that may rhyme with the 1990s and we
know it happened after the 1990s. How
much do you weigh that? How much do you
have to pay attention?
Well, you know, one of the things that
you do, so financial market conditions
are one input into our decision-making
that one of many inputs. You know, we
have two goals, price, stability, full
employment. We're trying to think about
what inputs affect those those um two
variables, those two goals. But what I
look at is if you look under the
valuations, you know, people are really
talking about one of two things. This is
going to be a transformative technology.
AI is going to change the world to be
like electricity or the steam engine.
And then the people who are a little
more skeptical are saying it's going to
be a business as usual technology. Think
of computers and the internet. The thing
that's true about both of those is
they're both productive. You get
productivity from both of those. They
both help with growth. They both help
the pie in the US expand. And so we're
not talking about a bunch of ideas with
no backing. We're talking about, you
know, equity investors, not highly
leveraged, going in and making
decorative
or business as usual. But everybody
agrees on one thing. It will change
productivity.
>> At the same time, President Daly, some
people would suggest that yes, you will
see stocks continue to go up in the face
of another rate cut, but at the same
time, the transmission mechanism of the
additional cuts are slower to take
place. It's less efficient in terms of
the pass through just based on how much
lending there is, whether it's in the
private lending sphere or beyond. How do
you measure these things at a confusing
moment?
Well, you know, I I guess this argument
that we've somehow lost our power,
monetary policy doesn't transmit. I
simply don't see it in the information.
If you go out and you look at what
happened when inflation was running
really, really high, we raised rates
pretty aggressively and mortgage
interest rates rose rapidly. Car loan
rates rose rapidly and the economy
slowed. Inflation came down. Right now,
what I'm seeing is we adjust rates,
mortgage interest rates come down. Not
one for one. That's not how it works.
Usually is less than one for one, but
they come down. You see a little more
activity in the housing market. You see
a little more activity in the borrowing
market more generally. And you see that
dynamic work. So, I guess the most
important thing is just to remember that
monetary policy acts with a lag. And
right now we're making decisions not
just for what's going to happen next
week, but what's going to happen in the
next six months to a year. So that's how
we have to think about it with our
forecasts and then how we adjust policy
as those forecasts evolve.
>> How frustrating has it been not to get
government data?
You know, I really want the information,
the fullest amount of information we can
possibly get. But one of the things that
I think may be underestimated in the in
uh in public about what the Fed does is
we're regularly relying on government
provided data. That's the gold standard
of data in the world. We're also relying
on private sector surveys which have
been collected for many many years and
we can correlate them with with the
government collected data over time and
know exactly how they relate to one
another. And then of course there's
really no replacement especially at
inflection points in the economy for
talking to businesses, workers,
communities and you know consumers
asking people what they're really doing
and then you know I like to do this. Go
to the parking lots of your favorite
retail stores and look at how many cars
are in the parking lot and what people
are buying. That tells you a lot. You
know airports are are full. People are
out there. You can go to you know go to
a sporting event or a concert, see how
many people are there. What you see is
an economy that is slower than it was.
Consumers that are not, they're more
picky about what they spend on, but
they're still out there participating in
the economy, and that's how we get the
information we need to make the right
decisions that are according to our
mandates, but mostly for the American
people.
>> President, you've been working with the
Fed or on the Fed uh committee for a
long, long time on these in these
debates. Have you ever seen it more
divided than it is right now on the
FOMC?
>> You know, of course. I mean, look at the
if you look at the transcripts and the
meeting minutes and you know, it's
helpful go back and look at the 1990s
debates and go back and look at the
commentary around the 1970s. You know,
it is a misnomer to think people always
agree. The right way to think about it,
in my judgment, this has been my
experience is that the debate we have, I
I wouldn't even call it division. I
would call it differences of opinion
that are really healthy in a debate
about trying to make policy in an
uncertain time with no truth. We don't
have truth. We have forecasts. We have
the our best estimates. We have taking
the evidence and then taking it again
and looking through it with with
different lenses. I see that as a
strength of the committee, a strength of
the Federal Reserve and importantly is
it is delivering the best possible
decisions we can make. So I have seen
this many times before and I think it's
always at inflection points that you see
the broadest amount of disagreement and
it's exactly what I hope people would
want from a committee making decisions
on inflation and full employment. It
really does help us make sure that we're
doing the best we possibly can.
>> So you happy to confirm on the record
you have not seen Governor Marin and
President Smith in a fight in the
two-day meeting? Can we confirm that
President Daily today? That hasn't
happened.
You always try and yet I'm not a rookie.
[laughter]
>> Mary Daly, thank you as always. Good to
see you. The San Francisco Fed
President, Mary Daily, I'd never accuse
you of being a rookie. [laughter]
>> Never. Honestly, her comments are really
interesting and highlights what a
tenuous moment this is. really given the
fact that they're all these different
overlays. I just wonder how different
the neutral rate would be if we're in
the 1970s versus the 1990s and what that
does for a Fed that is incredibly
divided at an inflection point.
>> They are really in a difficult moment
right now in a very difficult spot. Mike
McKe's going to join us now for more.
Mike, we're tracking that conversation.
You've got one of your own a little bit
later.
Yeah, we're going to talk to Alberto
Musllum who is a voter this year and I
suspect that uh at least Mary Daly's
answer on what happens in December is
going to be um sort of the template for
him as well. We don't know yet. We're
going to look at the data and wait until
the last minute because this is a time
when they can do that. Uh and we give
them something of a pass because we
don't have the data either. I had uh two
thoughts on Mary Dailyaly. One is on the
productivity question. Yes, AI could
produce a big jump in productivity, but
when uh and right now is when we're
talking about the monetary policy moves
that will take effect maybe 6 months to
a year from now, but how long is it
going to take AI uh to get in there? And
two, on the jobs aspect of it, if you
are an illegal immigrant, you're not
going to come out to uh seek a job even
if employers bid up wages. And if you're
legal, you might not either for the same
reason. And there's also a question
about the skills that federal workers
who've been laid off have. Are they
going to be able to find jobs in the
private sector fairly easily? It's a
very complicated picture. So, I'm not
sure um whether her arguments are
correct or not.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Looking
forward to the debate, your conversation
that you'll have a little bit later.
More insight into the debate on the
FOMC. Your question is the right one.
Look, we've seen a divided Fed before.
We've seen descent before, but this
feels particularly unique. two-way
descent, really difficult moment, a
feeling that this load churn dynamic
can't continue forever. It's got to cut
one way or the other. And we've said a
few times by the time this conversation
is complete, one half of the committee
won't look very smart. The other half of
the committee will look very smart, and
I'm not sure which half is which.
>> Yeah. And to understand that it is a
complicated moment is important. I mean,
everyone who comes on the show has a
completely different view as well. You
just wonder how you set policy going
forward and how relevant some of these
things are going to be going forward.
It's I mean I'm just trying to wrap my
head around it. You talked about mental
gymnastics. It feels like mental
gymnastics. You know, the idea of the AI
overlay on a cyclical economy that's
equally confusing is enough to make
anyone's Monday very exciting.
>> Well, we made the promise a few hours
ago. We tie ourselves in knots and we
have. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara with more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump
pardoned people who were allegedly
involved in the attempt to overturn the
2020 [music] presidential election.
Those pardoned included Rudy Giuliani,
Cydney Powell, Mark Meadows, and several
2020 campaign aids accused of sending
false electoralists from the three from
[music] three states to Congress in an
effort to keep Trump in power.
Meanwhile, Robin Hood shares are getting
a boost up 3.7%. [music]
According to the Financial Times, the
company plans to give users the
opportunity to invest in some private AI
firms. The trading platform aims to do
so by offering tradable shares in a new
fund managed by its subsidiary [music]
Robin Hood Ventures, which they say will
invest in a portfolio of five or more
private companies. And two Major League
Baseball players were indicted over the
weekend on charges pertaining [music] to
gambling fraud. Cleveland Guardians
pitchers Luis Ortiz and Emanuel Class
were charged with fraud, conspiracy, and
bribery. They face allegations [music]
of throwing specific pitches during game
situations so gamblers could place
corresponding bets. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John [music]
>> Yari, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, Peter Sapino of Wolf
Research with media earnings on deck.
That conversation up next live from New
York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
If you look at inflation, you're seeing
that it's been pretty contained so far
in the goods prices which have been
directly tariffed. Look at productivity
and you see that [music] productivity is
rising, GDP growth is rising while the
labor market is slowing. So the 50 basis
point adjustment we've made has helped
[music] support the labor market but
still keeps policy restrictive so that
we can put downward pressure [music] on
inflation. Just moments ago, that was
the San Francisco Fed President Mary
Daly weighing in on the debate of the
moment at a very divided Federal
Reserve. [music] Let's turn to the
earnings. Paramount Sky Dance reporting
after the closing bell as investors
speculate on his reported bid for Warner
Brothers Discovery. Peter Spino of Wolf
Research joins us now for more. Peter,
welcome to the program, sir. David
Ellison on the call a little bit later.
What do you want to know?
Well, David Ellison's plans are
ambitious and so uh there are so many
questions and many of them are as yet
unanswered. They shared a lot of
strategic perspectives when they closed
on the company, but they're all initial
preliminary high level and so we can't
wait to hear uh what they have to say
about everything from cost reductions to
their ways to grow their streaming
business and at the core uh what they'll
do to invest in the studio because this
business first and foremost is a is a
studio business. How they go to market
is another question.
>> How do you win in this environment,
Peter? RA than just sort of trying to
get into the sports game. What is the
winning recipe?
>> Yeah, I like the way you framed that.
Sports is an important traffic
acquisition tool if your goal is to be
uh everything to everyone every day or
or to have something for everyone every
day, which is roughly the way Paramount
described their streaming strategy. But
once you bring them in the front door
with sports, which is sort of the milk
in the grocery store analogy, it's the
low margin uh regular traffic driver,
you need to be able to sell them
something that's really profitable. Uh
and and that's the trick with Paramount.
Their content has had big highlights. Uh
especially Taylor Sheridan's work. Uh
but there has not been enough breadth of
fresh scripted content to keep people
coming back historically. And that's why
the company only has about 70 million
global subscribers of which about
twothirds come in through other
companies.
>> So Peter, how much can they raise prices
on us?
>> Is it was funny listening to Mary Daily
a few minutes ago talk about inflation.
One part of the economy which has had no
problem increasing prices has been uh
streaming video. Today, uh, three major
streaming services will cost you close
to $80 unless you want to accept
advertising insertion. Uh, and the top
five streamers will cost you over a
hundred on a premium basis. Uh, so
everybody in the ecosystem has pricing
power. Uh, Paramount Plus has has tested
the um pricing lever quite a bit.
They're somewhat inhibited though
because of those twothirds of the
customers that come through third
parties. uh when you are are
distributing through a third party, your
pricing is not the same as the retail
pricing. You have to negotiate with
Amazon and Roku and Charter and other uh
distributors uh to get your net cut and
that's an important long-term strategic
limitation for Paramount Plus.
>> Peter, this was great. Hopefully, we can
do this again later this week and we'll
talk about the Walt Disney Company as
well and take stock of these earnings
after the close. That was Peter Spino of
Wolf Research. Hulu's killing me. I
mean, you're setting me up for this. It
is driving me. This might have been
intentional.
>> Absolutely not.
>> Well, yeah, the package. It's like, what
happened? Just the bundle. I mean, we're
gonna be spending like $300 a month
soon.
>> Let's just go back to that, shall we?
>> 100%.
>> Land Man 2. Looking forward to getting
into that. There we go. There we go.
Shout out Paramount for that one. Coming
up tomorrow, Jeff Curry of Carlile,
Sheila Kolu of Jeff, Henry Trese of
Fader Partners, and Omar Aguilar of
Schwab Asset Management. From New York
City, this is Bloomberg.